4 UNCLASSIFIED
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY OF WAR
S000 DEFENSE PENTAGON
= WASHINGTON, Be 0301-5000
pie
02 JUNE 2026
MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT. Numtive from Witaess  - Westem US. Event
References: (a) bifps:/vonv var. gov/ufo/#Western-US-Eveat. VIRIN: 260508-D-DO3G0-1052,
08MIAY 2026
1. Executive Summary.

“This memorandun presets the first-hand narrative from Witness S provided to the All
domain Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO). Witness 5 was one of several United States (U.S.)
feral law enforcement special agents who eported observing unidentified anomalous
phenomena (UAP) over a period of two days in October 2023 in the western United States.

2. Wimess Naraive
In response to AARO's request o provide a frec-form namaive of the sequence of evens exactly
as they remennber them, Witness submited the following text

“Il October 2023
1. 5 JN ond sel, headed for the-Gate around 1630.
2. We headed south on J and ook note of two males (205) car aud plate [NEN scan:
plate: J after we asked if they had car trouble. They responded with something
Hike “Thank you or your concern, but we are just faking a ew pictures.”
3. There was a Triler and white minivan to the left of the oad shortly after as wel.
4 We found our tum off toveads JRE just before the sign’ Wildlife National park”
(name). The road was unpaved and rough. There were signs saying to not sleep in vehicle when
we entered. About two mile nto tis oad, thre was a rer, a white jeep wrangler, and an old
red volkswagon van tink 1 saw a screen on inside the trailer.
5. The sun was seting, but there was sill sunlight 0 se the mountain formations. On this road.
ahead and slighty to ur right. af 1858, we noliced a large orange light. Upon closer look. the
orange light appeared to be placed on something. although nothing could be identified to be
Holding it up. seemed tobe hovering with zero resistance or movement, o to be suspended just
over distinctive peak in the ridge line. 1 think th light lasted less than or about a minute, but it
‘was longer than just a flash of light.

1
UNCLASSIFIED
