\ UNCLASSIFIED
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY OF WAR
S000 DEFENSE PENTAGON
= WASHINGTON. BE 01 so00
rewcence
Joi
02 June 2026
MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Namative from Witness 4 - Westem U5. Event
References: (a) hitps://www.war gov/ufo/# Westem-US-Event, VIRIN: 260508-D-D0360-1052,
08MAY 2026
1. Excautive Summary
“This memorandum presents the is-hand narrative from Witness 4 provided to the All
domain Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO). Witness 4 was one of several United States (U.S.)
federal Iw enforcement special agents who reported observing unidentified anomalous
phenomena (UAP) over a period of two days in October 2023 in the western United States.
2. Witaess Naraive.
In sesponse to AARO's request 0 provide a fe-fom narative of the sequence of events
exacily as they remermber them, Witness 4 submitted the following text
“Sometime in October 2023, ust afte sunset (7PM), I saw a bright ball of igh ike a shooting
star beam across and over a hillside. The light was approxiaaately 1-2k sbove ground level, wes
orange/yellow and white in color and appeared for about a second or two. Twas approximately
{ess than a quarter ofa ile rom the hillside, and the bal of fight sem very close fo ue as if it
‘was a shooting star coming towards the hillside, toward and not away from me. The colors of
the light went from amber to orange, slightly yellow and white in that order. No other lights
‘were seen, nor did I hear any mechanical buzzing or anything like an aircraft at this time and
kept driving. After about 10 minutes I saw with my naked eye multiple singular bright orange
lights/orbs of various brightness, size and distance. Using my night vision goggles (NVGs) I
‘saw the same lights in addition to multiple other lights. Some of the lights seen with NVG's
were organized in lie of tree, evenly spaced and at various altudes, horizontally just above
the skyline. Most of the lights were only visible for approx. 1-2 seconds before disappearing.
Later, observe multiple singular very bright orange lights that appeared to shoot out smaller
orange lights as if being hatched from the larger very bright orange light. The hatching occurred.
‘mlpl times, lost track afer fve occurrences. The smaller lights seemed to travel
downards ike falling Sar. Soon thereafter I saw nine lights formed a horizontal line just
above ridgeline. The lights were stati, not moving, evenly spaced spart and were visible for
30+ seconds. Smaler lights then appeased below aud to the left and righ of he in of nine
lights. These sualler lights seme to cluster amos tonhing) i a combination of tree. The
lights soon disappeared only to appeas again diretly behind me. All these observations occurred
within a 2-3 hour span, nonstop.
1
UNCLASSIFIED
