UNCLASSIFIED
) OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY OF WAR
S000 DEFENSE PENTAGON
= WASHINGTON, BC T0361 4000
five
02 une 2026
MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Namative from Witness 3 - Westem U.S. Event
References: (a) hips: war gov/ufo#Western-US-Event, VIRIN: 260508-D-DO3G60-1052.
08MAY 2026,
1. Exceutive Summary.

“This memorandum presents the first-hand narmative from Witness 3 provided to the All-
domain Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO). Witness 3 was one of several Unifed Stes (US)
federal Law enforcement special agents who reported observing identified anomalous
phenomenn (UAP) over a period of two days in October 2023 in the western United States.

2. Witness Narrative.

In response to AARO's request to provide a fiee-form native of the sequence of eves
exactly as they remember them, Witness 3 submitted the following text:

“I mid-Oct 2023, Twas with ageats fiom our office at our work location. We were out of the
office conducting Work related activities. Traveling and working with one other agent, at
approsimately 1900, roughly dusk with a clear sky, [was looking east when saw a large orange
orb nthe sky seemingly coming in my direction. T recall my partner asking, “are you seeing
his?” 1 could’ fell how large the orb was because | could not determine how far away it was. 1
recall hat it was ltemating between clear and orange with maybe two or hree seconds in each
colored cycle. When it was orange, the outline was well defined. but when it was clear, it did not
seem to disappear as vaguely recall till being able o see am outline of the orb although i was
clear. Tn ferms of spe, Id estimate the orb moved approximately 20 degrees in he sky in
about three fo five seconds. When the orb was af approximately 45 degrees (halfway between
the horizon and directly overhead), it expelled three smaller red orbs. The expulsion appeared fo
be mechanical. The red orbs then moved fo the south in a straight line spaced about one second
apart, also at 45 dearees (from directly overhead to the horizon) unil I could no longer se hem.
1did not pay attention to what the orange orb was doing afer i released the ed orbs. However,
1don'tsecall seeing it any longer. Tdo no recal any sound associated with what I saw. Also.
there were no exhaust trails coming from either the orange or the red orbs. Although could ot
ell how large the orange orb was, the red orbs were a lot smaller than the orange orb.
‘Comparatively, 'd say the ed orbs were like grapes being expelled from a basketball. The time
frame for this explanation was maybe 30-45 seconds.
In a second occurrence, also in mid-Oet 2023, either the same night or the next night, was out
with my partner again but a a different locaton. 1 was nearing full darkness, so I'd say th time
was probably ~2000-2030 and the sky was clear. I was using NVG fo scan the sky when I saw
1
UNCLASSIFIED
