·Media Engagement Invitation -- Wednesday, March 6, 3 p.m.                   0 4--) Reply <<-) Reply All --> Forward                                            I
                 Gough, Susan L (Sue) CIV OSD PA (USA)
                To                                                                                        Tue 3/5/2024 8:33 PM

              Bcc  Brandi Vincent; Martinez. Luis E. Martin, David-CND; Liebermann, Oren; Lara Seligman;
Signed By
                   kayla.guo@nytimes.com; Schogol, Jeff (Task and Purpose);  Lamothe, Dan

  @You forwarded this message on 3/6/2024 2:14 PM.

Media colleagues,

***OFF THE RECORD / FOR PLANNING PURPOSES ONLY / NOT FOR DAYBOOKS***

You are invited to participate in an embargoed invited-media roundtable with Tim Phillips, acting director, AARO, on Wednesday, March 6, at 3 p.m. EST, in the
Pentagon Briefing Room, on AARO's Historical Record Report Volume 1 (HRRV1), the initial volume of the congressionally directed historical record report on
U.S. government UAP-related programs.

The roundtable will be on-record and off-camera, and embargoed until DOD announces the public release of the unclassified version of HRRV1 on Friday,
March 8. Those who agree to the embargo will be sent a copy of HRRV1 on Wednesday morning, so that you have time to read it prior to the roundtable. The
report is also embargoed until DOD announces the public release of the unclassified version of HRRV1 on Friday, March 8. We expect that to be in the
morning; a more definitive time will be provided later.

This is an invited-media roundtable only and this invitation is not transferable. However, if you are unavailable tomorrow and you have a colleague from your
outlet who can attend, please inform me and I will send an invitation to them. Only one person from your outlet may attend.

To receive an embargoed copy of HRRV1 and be allowed into the roundtable, please respond with an email that states: "I agree to the embargo."

Regards,
Sue Gough
Defense Press Operations, OSD(PA)
