
=== Page 1 ===
[Approved for Release 2026) for Release 2026
CATR A fe Soli AEN Te
RS A SABA. 5 AR A em IR i soy sh
A ) 1 {
TT ei Tule Tah hy re Shc poo sd ov. |
l Bias TR rR Re as SEE Y rad
| contaoued DISSEM ESET : SE NO DISSEM ABROAD |
; cownmv usm ~ €  woNo  00-3.31/p3g0-67 |
LS Ne ES E a
| soer fv. min on Conversations With Soviet DATE DISTR. 18 Aug gy ce
1 Ee clentists on Subject of Unidentified \ Ey te
a _ Tying Objects in the USSR NO. PAGES a kK L ly
| ; : : ji vp ee
: : Gio REFERENCES " eo AE
(351) cuss al
| DATE OF INFO. May 1967 . 0
J THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION - -
’ SOURCE US citizen; an astrophysicist on the staff of a large research ine 4
i& stitute. The information in this report was extracted from a memorandum he. |
i wrote for his superiors. . -
L: [This report was developed by an Air Force (AFNIN) representative ss- Cod
by sigred to the office of préparation.) : Be
i 1. This report is an sccount of conversationcl exchanges on the subject of i
ve UFO's durin: the course of a one-month trip of a US scientist through iA
a ; the USSR in the spring of 1967, for the purpose of visiting several astro- ae
if ork, nomical observatories having staff member» engaged in planetary research. bar
joo i The only scientists contacted during the trip were astronomers, and in- i
quiries concerning Soviet observations and interpreiations of UFO's 3
o were a minor aspect of the trip. Within these limitatious, an attempt ml
Gy vas nade to assest Soviet scientific thinking on this controversial ol
a topic. a
2. He visited V.I. Yoross Sternberg Institute, Moscow, who was noncommite
ps tal on the subject of UFO's, The scientist who sorved as translator, 4
: iE a radio astronomer, o.phatically stated that he knew of no sightings A
2 of UFO's in the USSR and added with a laugh that if they were only seen |
: Pog in the US, they must be of Soviet origin, : =
fic 3, At the Pulkovo Observatory, Leningrad, onsof the astronomers mentioned an
LI that she had heard of some sightings of unidentified objects near the i.
lo » Caucasus. She was unaware of any study being made of them but was open~ E
LL ninded on the subject. : oA
a \ Ew
a 4, The US scientist's main visit was to N.A. Konyrey, who was very inter- i
| lL ested in the problem. He had read Menzel’ hook (which has been trans. ol
‘ LO lated into Russian) but did not accept his conclusions.  Kozyrev knew ;
a of some sightings in the northern part of the USSR, but said that re- k
| ports of such sightings are not printed in Soviet newspapers hecause
| ie they sre net regarded as scientific observaticns. (Comment: this fs !
LE interesting in view of the readinees of Soviet newspapers to print ra- ah
| © ther fantastic reports of hypotheses and "observations" suggested by the he
wore imaginative members of the scientific commmity. Apparently some 3
| s  officisl sanction 1s needed.) Kosyrev has been interested in US re- pe
| 4 ports of UFO's and readily accepts their reality. In fact, it is his .
fn Se : ; : ol
| 3 personal opinion that the UFO's may originate on Venus. He is well yo
Loe aware of the negative effect of "enlightened" scientific opinion on qo
ly the interpretation of questionable observations as he has had personal oh
{ JOAN t ) | Oy 07 NI ROA I Cy MN R¥ Yor
io | So 42 <p : EN j HE i i
| mens EA pL Ro Ag Re pee
LEE Oe TE EE Re
jo ls dat a AA hat) pa la ETE vari Glew of
. ais Gl SEE SR ss te ss co on as deg BES ME BE 0 di a SE 1 sg et a hl


=== Page 2 ===
CONTROLLED DISSEM Owl Pr Eee BNP EArt — NO DISSE, ABROAD H
yi 00-B-321/23490-6T
experience of this effect. (Comment: Kozyrev is a controversial figure
in the Soviet scientific community as well as internationally. Appar-
ently one of his questionable observations (the activity of the central
peak in the lunar crater Alphonsus) has turned out to be correct, On
the other hand, it is really more accurate to say that this observation
led to an intensive search for activity on the Moon that has produced
some positive results, There may be no connection between the two sets
of data, however.)
5. At the Main Astronomical Observatory, Kiev, little interest is shown in
the UFO question. I,K, Koval mentioned that he and several other ase-
tronomers had been out in the countryside one evening and had seen a
curious, reddish object flashing through the sky that they were convinced
was neither a satellite nor a meteorite, However, their immediate in-
terpretation was that this object might have been a fragment of a satel-
lite or rocket returning from orbit, buraing up in the atmosphere. Koval
thought that UFO's had been seen in the USSR but he could not be specific
as to locations and characteristics.
6. At the Crimean Astrophysical Observatory, Crimea, again little interest
was shown, One of the astronomers, L,I. Galkin, was with the group men-
tioned by Koval and confirmed the observation of a peculiar object. He
did not discuss the experience in detail but clearly had been struck by
the possibility that the object might have been a "saucer."
7, At the Astrophysical Institute, Alma Ata, there was considerable interest.
The institute includes an Atmospheric Optics Section presided over by
G.S., Lifschitz. However, the initial discussion of the problem was with
| the director of the institue, G.M. Idlis, He too had read Menzel's
book, but considered it an adequate treatment of the subject which he
1 consequently felt was closed. He indicated that no observations of UFO's "
had been made by his staff and that they had received no reports of such
observations. However, when the US scientist proceeded to indicate the
results of McDonald's critical study of the problem, Idlis readily con-
ceded that there might be more to it and concluded by stating that it
was "clearly still an open question."
8. Another astronomer mentioned that in th: northern part of Kazakhstan
there had been repeated sightings of ball lightning. The University in
Alma At. had sent a team out to investigate and discovered that what wii
being seen were reflections of automobile headlights from an inversion ~~~
layer,
9. Later, a discussion was held with Lifschitz. He was not very impressed ]
with Menzel's book, but was aleo mot impressed with the significance of
the phenomenon. It is possible thst some interest was kindled that might
lead to additional investigations,
10. A stellar spectroscopist, Dr. Inu  Kupo, was also interested in this
problem, partly as an adjunct to her attempts to locate fragments from
bolides. Sha was elso dissatisfied with Menzel's book and felt that
there was definitely an opportunity for additional research.
11. The general feeliug one gets is that no official treatment of the UFO
problem has been given in the USSR, Instead people refer to the US
28 work, principally Menzel's book, to demonstrate the absence of real
§ scientific problems. At the same time, there is an almost universal
! = awareness of the history and characteristics of the phenomenon often as- "7
sociated with considerable interest, The result is that a demonstration
| of the inadequacy of US Official explanations coupled with some proof of
| the reality of the observations might excite enthusissm more rapidly
i among Soviet astronomers than among their US counterparts who are more
{ strongly influenced by the officiul ridicule associated with UFO's in :
; s the US. ; s
4 ~~ eend - 4
1 i | ; Rea
s Rak | 5
| x Cre : ro €-Oui-Fr Res rite gaily ; 1.
ERR em eb he en EO Nl TREN
: ® A oo I. f [EE =

