liE9REif:1:'~IQFQRtl
Range Fouler Debrief Form

Please do not use the purple "submit" button above. Save and email the comp lete file manually (see below) .

Please complete this form to the best of your ability. If you do not have the requested information, please leave the field blank. If there was more than one "group," please report each on a separate form for data collection purposes. You should receive a response within 5 business days.

Last Name, First Name

Rank
0-4

Squadron

SIPR Email Address

Crew Position
Pilot

This information is for contact only. -sanitizes all reports of identifying information. Absolutely no identifying information for aircrew or squadron will be recorded for analysis.

Date (mmlddlyy)

Time of detection (hh:mm:ss Z)

Day
Day I Night

Side No.

Buno

Contact Working Area (fa· W- 72 1A)

Contact Letitute (DD.MM:SS)

NIS Contact Longitude EIW Contact Altitude

(DD.MMSSJ

(Ex 22000)

Pleas~pt to determine a Lat I Long for the contact at initial detection. We recommend using-a reference the sensor-derived bearing and range relative to the buf/seye you had in use. If that method is not available, any reasonable derivation of location will work, but please be as specific as possible and make a note in the comments section. These locations may be used to cue other means of tracking.

Altitude Constent?

Wind Dir at Contact Alt
(From)

Was the contact moving?

Direction/Speed (Ex. 090115)

Wind Speed
Yes

Please check all that apply:

D Round: D Square.

·D Moving Parts.
[Z] Metallic.

D Balloon-shaped
:0 Wings/Airframe D Other Shape

D Markings: D Translucent:
D Opaque:

Apparent Propulsion. □

[Z] Reflective:

Please use the field below to describe the contact and any interaction in your own words with as much

detail as possible. Please be sure to include any detail not included in qu.. estions above.

apparent object also captured with

Appeared quite smal l. Speed appeared to be

and continued in constant direction . Shape

indiscernible but the bottom was refilective .

Don't use the purple "submit" button! Save this form with filename "Date_Squadron_RF.pdf" and email

it t

(Also in the global). For troubleshooting, call

Thank you for your time. Please ensure all display tapes are ripped for the entire time of interaction and

saved as a .wmv (Example:

Squadron intel personnel shall upload those files

to the repository located at

liE9REif1'1'rn~F@RP4

Department of the Navy DUSN (M) DRMD Authority: FY 24 NDAA, now codified at 44 U.S.C. 2107 Date: 5/19/2026 Released in Part: X
AARO 44 U.S.C. 2107 § 1843(a)(3) AARO FY2024 NDAA § 1843(a)(l)(C);E.O. 13526, section 1.4(a) AARO FY2024 NDAA § 1843(a)(l)(C);E.O. 13526, section 1.4(e)

