Si. UNCLASSIFIED
J OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY OF WAR
05 JUNE 2026

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: All-domain Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO) Unidentified Anomalous
Phenomena (UAP) Case Analysis Update: Wester US. Event “Orbs Launching
Os”

References: () bitps-/foworw war govufo/#Western-US Even. Incident 1 of 4, VIRIN: 260508-
'D-D0360-1052, 08: MAY 2026

1. Executive Summary.

‘This memorandum summarizes the All-domain Anomaly Resolution Office's (AARO)
ongoing analysis ofa reported incident near a sensitive national securiy site in the wester
‘United Sates involving unidentified anomalous phenomena (UA) over a period of two days in
October 2023. As of June 2026, the case remains unresolved.

2. Incident Summary *

‘Over a period of two days in October 2023, six federal law enforcement special agents
reported observing “orbs launching ofher orbs,” near  sensiive national security site in the
‘western United States a approximately dusk. Each team of two agents ported observing
‘phenomena with similar morphological features and performance characteristics from multiple:
viewing angles.

‘The phenomens’s most distincive reported feature was the repeating nature of their
pattem of behavior, in which a luminous orange “mother orb” appeared to produce smaller red
“orbs,” one afer another, mip times over a period of several hours. Reporters described the
orange “mother orbs” as appearing for one to two seconds, releasing a cluster of two to four red
“orbs,” and subsequently disappearing. The reporters characterized the behavior of the red
“orbs” as amomalous, describing varied kinematic profiles including seemingly coordinated
horizontal motion and apparent changes in altitude. The red “orbs” reportedly persisted for
several seconds before disappearing. however, in at least one instance, the agents described a ed
“of” as remaining stationary above a ridgeline for several hours. The reporters also described
the phenomena as “silent” The agents provided consistent accounts sing similar language fo
characterize their experiences and the apparent behavior of both the red and orange “orbs.”

3. Analytic Factors.
AARO's we of snce-deved deceptive snd elusive ange his sma i tended fo pres the
git of sama estumeny a road by frst and ahsrvrs.
1
UNCLASSIFIED
