EEE pprovod for Relsass Zoe =
o yl @
17 Decesber 1953
oun Tor Aasiasant Director, Sesensatic Intelligence
MOC + Caer, Pysics and Blectronico Division, oF
RECT: Cureat Status of Uaidentiricd Flying jects
(uFoB) Project.

1. In accordance with the verbal request of Mr. Brent, Bxec/s,
on 50 Tovasbans Ths SoLiouios reves of the sureen sth 5¢ intdentie
FE Rita aenndt eg beats

2. Pum Division sssiand responsibility for she GI project on
uniconiicien ying Gosests se a Poms of Jour Tencrih of
BE Rosie Fos men Soin oo oa iniainiog averonson
of the activities of other agencies (notably the USAF) la the
Et ig ees et faces aoa" etatemmad of Fries.

1953

o. Air Foros. oo Als Force continues to caiatain, but eich
experts donee Siphan os Totorert tn GRORYe: Fi present
a cursory cognizance of ATIC's project (Rluebook No. 10073). At ATIC
the project is carried by one ofricer (Capt. Charles A. Hardin), ose
airman (A/IC Max G. Futch), and a secretary operating as tie Aerial
Sononens sockian. 5 the Biostronton. Beinn, FeGieh1 Rodiyols Division.
De or his atten star a wil to several Srasems of prolect
SFelier, Che srogect resorts copesr <b be Vp. souteses AIC phrsonael
n0 longer conduct fleld investigations of UFOB sightings (these are
requesicd fron USAF intelligence officers / primarily ALr Defense
Comamnd ne. ALrways and Alr Commmications Service] nearer to the
sightings), tut confine their activities to receiving and checking
Tejorta sa" cece ives, peasostine MLI Himes Tels inves bigation sire
sedemsery, pesioreiic sdcestery heciiay sealnst usisorolopical,
etrasontiel tert so baler date, and recording thelr Firines
i Semlusiine in a cross-setenences s3siem br ante; loout ions sone;
eC hati ams conetamion Grace, The esiel Prosoeenn Sestion
50 Gea Siretty with the Pbtio Information Grfics of rac, UoKes
Termine thtumantion for RbLLe lene For spotters yours
ireeciataly an Poros 5 the ereriel Lines hive been Yasetd
pron

OF sorticutnr interest Io the fact that ATIC ts in the
process of sramsteveing eecees Bothesk so Bars Ais Desens Comeand.
Roooratop to 15. Cot. Tair Johnstons Chiat, Hlicteentca Branch she
Tevton Tox the Craanier ma Shae (30 tad veo deine mort oF ine

x. 5
