014

CLEARED For Open Publication
Nov 17, 2023
Department of Defense OFFICE OF PREPUBLICATION AND SECURITY REVIEW

Timothy A. Phillips Deputy Director (Acting Director) All-domain Anomaly Resolution Office
Mr. Timothy A. Phillips assumed the duties of the Deputy Director All-domain Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO) in October 2023. He is a Senior National Intelligence Service executive appointed in 2006 with over 40 years of government experience serving in a variety of senior Intelligence Community assignments in the field and at agency headquarters. Mr. Phillips is a retired United States Marine Corps Lieutenant Colonel serving in peacekeeping, humanitarian, or combat operations in Lebanon, Somalia, Kuwait, Iraq, Joint Task Force Bravo, and JTF 510.
Mr. Phillips’s educational achievements include a Master’s in Business and Information Resources Management from Webster University, Master of Military Science from the Marine Corps University, and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science from the University of Arizona. He is a graduate of the Federal Executive Institute, Naval Postgraduate School Center for Homeland Defense and Security Executive Leaders Program, Defense Acquisition University, the Marine Corps Amphibious Warfare School, Marine Corps Command and Staff College, and the Armed Forces Staff College. He has completed executive leadership and management programs at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government, George Washington University Executive Leadership Development Program, George C. Marshall European Center for Security Studies, and the Intelligence Community Executive Leaders program. Mr. Phillips served on the Council on Foreign Relations as a National Intelligence Fellow.

All-Domain Anomaly Resolution Office Chief of Staff, AARO Date: 2/06/2025 Released in Full:___X__; Released in Part: ______ Authority: FY24 NDAA, now codified at 44 U.S.C. 2107 Case Number: 330UAP000014

Page determined to be Unclassified Reviewed by Chief of Staff, AARO
IAW FY24 NDAA, Section 1841 (a)(1)(C) Date: 02/06/2025

