021

OBJECTS COMMONLY REPORTED AS UAP
While AARO receives a wide range of reports, many of which remain unsolved
objects/causes reported as UAP Include
• Airborne clutter • • Commercial or military aircraft • Unmanned aerial vehicles • Space launches • Satellites • Celestial objects

All-Domain Anomaly Resolution Office Chief of Staff, AARO Authority: FY24 NDAA, now codified at 44 U.S.C. 2107 Date: 3/3/2025 Released in Full: X Case Number: 330UAP000021
Page determined to be Unclassified Reviewed by Chief of Staff, AARO IAW FY24 NDAA, Section 1841(a)(1)(C) Date: 3/3/2025

The All-domain
Air ▪ Maritime ▪ Space

Image of a Starlink 4-34 launch

For additional information please visit www.aaro.mil
Media Inquiries:

Photo Credit: NASA

www.aaro.mil
Updated: October 2024

ABOUT AARO
(AARO) is leading the U.S. Government’s efforts to detect, track, and analyze
framework and a data-driven approach.
UAP
UAP are sources of anomalous detections in one or more domains (i.e., airborne, seaborne, spaceborne, and/or transmedium) that are not yet attributable to known actors and that demonstrate behaviors that are not readily understood by sensors or observers.
“Anomalous detections” include, but are not limited to, phenomena that demonstrate apparent capabilities or material that exceed known state-ofthe-art capabilities.
A UAP may consist of one or more
persist over an extended period of time.
• UAP result primarily from domainawareness gaps.
• UAP potentially represent advanced capabilities operating in our domain-awareness gaps.

MISSION, VISION & FUNCTION
AARO emerged from congressional and U.S. Government recognition that UAP present possible hazards and threats across service, regional, and domain boundaries.
MISSION:
Minimize technical and intelligence intelligence and operational detection, of UAP in the vicinity of national security areas.
VISION:
detected, tracked, analyzed, and managed by way of normalized DoD, IC, and civil business practices; by intelligence-tradecraft standards; and with transparency and shared awareness.
Figure from www.aaro.mil

Page determined to be Unclassified

021

Reviewed by Chief of Staff, AARO

IAW FY24 NDAA, Section 1841(a)(1)(C)

Date: 3/3/2025

CURRENT OPERATIONAL

UAP REPORTING

• Military and DoD civilian personnel should report through their command or service in accordance with GENADMIN Joint Staff J3 Washington

Anomalous Phenomena Reporting and Material Disposition.”

• Civilian pilots are encouraged to promptly report UAP sightings to air

related Pilot Reports from the Federal Aviation Administration.

OTHER REPORTS TO AARO
AARO is accepting reports of U.S. Government programs or activities related to UAP from current or former U.S. Government employees, service members, or contractor personnel with direct knowledge. These reports will be used to inform AARO’s congressionally directed Historical Record Report.
A reporting form is available at www.aaro.mil. The form is intended as an initial point of contact with AARO; it is not intended for conveying potentially
Following the submission of your report, AARO staff may reach out to request additional detail or arrange for an informational interview.

