REPORTS TO AARO
AARO is accepting reports of U.S. Government programs or activities related to UAP from current or former U.S. Government employees, service members, or contractor personnel with direct knowledge. These reports will be used to inform AARO’s congressionally directed Historical Record Report.
A reporting form is available at www. aaro.mil. The form is intended as an initial point of contact with AARO; it is not intended for conveying potentially sensitive or classified information. Following the submission of your report, AARO staff may reach out to request additional detail or arrange for an informational interview.
CURRENT OPERATIONAL UAP REPORTING:
• Military and DoD civilian personnel should report through their command or service in accordance with GENADMIN Joint Staff J3 Washington DC 191452ZMAY23 “Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena Reporting and Material Disposition.”
• Civilian pilots are encouraged to promptly report UAP sightings to air traffic control. AARO receives UAPrelated Pilot Reports (PIREPs) from the Federal Aviation Administration.

e est
e est

CLEARED For Open Publication

04 universum mutatio es

t
vita

Jun 27, 2024
Department of Defense OFFICE OF PREPUBLICATION AND SECURITY REVIEW

AARO

All-Domain Anomaly Resolution Office Chief of Staff, AARO

nostra est quod cogitationes nostra facer

Authority: FY24 NDAA, now codified at 44 U.S.C. 2107 Date: 3/20/2025

The All-domain

Released in Full: X

Anomaly Resolution Office

Case Number: 330UAP000004

Page determined to be Unclassified

Air ▪ Maritime ▪ Space

Reviewed by Chief of Staff, AARO

IAW FY24 NDAA, Section 1841(a)(1)(C)

Date: 3/20/2025

t
vita

universum mutatio es
AARO
nostra est quod cogitationes nostra facer
For additional information please visit www.aaro.mil Media Inquiries:
osd.pa.dutyofficer@mail.mil
Image Credit: NASA

www.aaro.mil 24-P-0826

ABOUT AARO
AARO is leading the U.S. Government’s efforts to detect, track, and analyze Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena (UAP) using a rigorous scientific framework and a data-driven approach.
UAP
UAP are sources of anomalous detections in one or more domains (i.e., airborne, seaborne, spaceborne, and/or transmedium) that are not yet attributable to known actors and that demonstrate behaviors that are not readily understood by sensors or observers. ​
“Anomalous detections” include, but are not limited to, phenomena that demonstrate apparent capabilities or material that exceed known performance envelopes. ​
A UAP may consist of one or more unidentified anomalous objects and may persist over an extended period of time. ​
• Existence of UAP is direct consequence of domain-awareness gaps.
• UAP potentially represent advanced capabilities operating in our domain-awareness gaps.​

04
MISSION, VISION, & FUNCTION
AARO emerged from congressional and departmental recognition that UAP present complex hazards and threats across service, regional, and domain boundaries.

MISSION:

Minimize technical and intelligence surprise by synchronizing scientific, intelligence and operational detection, identification, attribution, and mitigation of UAP in the vicinity of national security areas.
VISION:
UAP are effectively and efficiently detected, tracked, analyzed, and managed by way of normalized DoD, IC, and civil business practices; by adherence to the highest scientific and intelligencetradecraft standards; and with greater transparency and shared awareness.

Figure from www.aaro.mil.
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY:
Revealing and exploiting elusive and enigmatic signatures through advanced technologies, and focused, cross-sector partnerships.
ANALYSIS:
Delivering peer-reviewed conclusions through deliberate syntheses of scientific and intelligence method, tradecraft, tools, and expertise.

OPERATIONS:

STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS:

Synchronizing and sequencing Theater, IC, and other capabilities for optimized, cross-functional UAP detection, tracking, mitigation, and recovery.​

Driving shared awareness across mission partners, oversight authorities, and stakeholders; normalizing crosssector partnerships and building trust with transparency. Page determined to be Unclassified Reviewed by Chief of Staff, AARO IAW FY24 NDAA, Section 1841(a)(1)(C) Date: 3/3/2025

