UNCLASSIFIED
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY OF WAR
S000 DEFENSE PENTAGON
= WASHINGTON, Be T0361 4000
fied
02 une 2026
MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Namative from Witness 2 - Wester U.S. Event
References: (a) hips: war gov/ufo/#Western-US-Event, VIRIN: 260508-D-DO360-1052.
08-MAY 2026,
1. Exceutive Summary.

“This memorandum presents the first-hand narmative from Witness 2 provided to the All-
domain Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO). Witness 2 was one of several Unied Stes (US)
federal Law enforcement special agents who reported observing identified anomalous
phenomena (UAP) over a period of wo days in October 2023 in the western United States.

2. Witness Narrative.

In response to AARO's request to provide a fiee-form native of the sequence of eves

exactly as they remember them, Witness 2 submitted the following text:
“Incident |
In October 2023, my partner and T were tasked to survey an area for individuals launching
drones. My partner and T were positioned in valley, with mountain ranges o the west and east
and mor distant ranges to the north: we had teams positioned throughout the area as wel. The
weather was clear; we sa [and] watched the sumset as dusk transitioned ino darkness, At
approimately 1900 hours, I observed a bright circular orb-like light approximately 35-45
degrees above the northern/northenster horizon. Originally. th light was not dissimilar fo that
of a luminescent planst observed in the night sky but grew slowly brighter. The bright orb-like
ight had a smaller red orb-like light within it As the bright orb-like light srew lager, it
expelled three or four red lights rom it. The red lights accelerated instantly and maneuvered
with perfect, smooth coordination ito a horizontal formation. The red lights were
approximately 1/15 the size of the rb-like light. The bright orb-like light did not appear fo be an
artificial neon glow, but rather a bright aural light with a slight halo effec. The red lights were
fess luminescent and appeared to be more like artificial lights (e.., taillights). Following the
expulsion of the smaller red lights, the bright orb-like light dined and faded from sight. From
approimately 1900 hours o approximately 1930 hours, 1 witnessed the process repeat
approimately five times across the northern, northeastern, and eastern horizon. Our eas
confirmed they observed the same objects. The last grouping of ed lights moved in a horizonal
pattern to the Southern horizon where they semained the est of the evening. The three red lights
‘were all aligned and remained equally spaced. From approximately 1930 hours until
approximately 2300 hours, the red lights hovered above fhe southern horizon. The red lights
‘Sometime dipped below he horizon, out of sight but consistently rose back up. Al
1
UNCLASSIFIED
