Tape 5/2                      Yes, we copied your VI and your EMS numbers, and
                       CC     we've got a number for you. Maneuver start time
                              will be at 03 plus 33 plus 27.
                       LMP
                              Okay, we got you. Maneuver at 03:33:27.
               cc
                              That's affirmative, Jack.
                       LMP
                              You guys didn't tell us we couldn't see anything
               cc             going through the sunrise.
00 03 25 01 cc
                              (Laughter) Roger.
                         LMP
                              17, Houston. We're making plans here for a space
00 03 27 27 cc                craft SEP time of 03 plus 43.

                        CMP   03 plus 43. Roger.

               cc             17, Houston. We're copying cabin press of 5.9 this
                              time.
                        CMP
00 03 31 55 LMP               Roger. We - we just got it, Bob.
00 03 34 10 LMP
                              Okay.
               cc
                              Thank you.
                        CMP
                              Frame 65 for the LMPs mag November November.
                        CC
                        LMP   Okay. We - we are maneuvering, Houston.

                        CMP   Roger. We're watching it.

                              Now we've got a few very bright particles or frag
                              ments or something that go drifting by as we
                              maneuver.

                              Roger. Understand.

                              There's a whole bunce of big ones on my window
                              down there - just bright. It looks like the
                              Fourth of July out of Ron's window.

                              Yes. Now you can see some of them in shape.
                              'They're very jagged, angular fragments that are
                              tumbling.
                      CC                                                                              Tape 5/3
                      CMP
                      CC    Roger. They look like fluid of some sort?
                      CMP
                      CC    Not to me. They look like pieces of something.
                      CMP
                            Roger.
                      CC
                            They're very bright.
                       CMP
                            Jack, we'd like OMNI Charlie.
                      CDR
                       CMP  Bob, for the most part, these fragments are not -
                            or are tumbling at a very slow rate. I tried a
00 03 37 34 cc              couple of pictures of them - different settings.
                            You may get an idea of what, at least, the patterns
00 03 37 45 cc              look like.

00 03 37 46 LMP             Roger. I've got you. We're all ears on these frag
                       CDR  ments. Do you think you can figure out what they
                       CMP  might be?

                            Well, you know I - I don't know. There are a num
                            ber of possibilities. If you had some kind of a -
                            I got the impression maybe they were curved a little
                            bit, as if they might be - off the side of the
                            S-IVB. And that's a wild guess

                            Okay. RCS LOGIC is ... - -

                            - - ice chunks, possibly. Or maybe there's paint
                            coming off of it.

                            Roger. I noticed on one trip up the elevator last
                            weak near one of the flags. I thought it was on
                            the S-II, but it might have been on the S-IVB.
                            Looked like it was peeling. Maybe that's what
                            you've got.

                            And the S-IVB maneuver is complete.

                                   in 1 minute.

                            Okay. We'll set the old clock.

                            Okay. And the - with the maneuver complete, the
                            fragment field is essentially static, except for
                            very slight tumbling within the fragments.
Tape 5/4                      Roger. Cut in.

00 03 38 01 cc                Every once in a while, a fragment of considerably
                              higher velocity than the others goes across my
                        CMP   window. But that's very rare.

                        CC    Roger.
                        CMP
                              Hey, that's that field of view I saw out my window.
                        LMP   Jack, do you see it now?
                        CMP
                              Yes.
                        CC
                        CMP   And, Bob. At least, there - there's no apparent
                        CC    relative motion between fragments.
                        CDR
                              Roger. Understand.
                cc
                              I'll take two pictures about a minute apart if I
00 03 39 35 CMP               can. And it'll be Frame 70.
                         LMP
                              Okay. Frame 70.
                cc
                              And, Bob. This is Geno. My impression is that
00 03 39 53 CMP               they are - flat, flakelike particles. Some may
                         LMP
                              be 6 inches across. And, although there's no
00 03 39 57 CMP
                         LMP  relative motion between the two, most of them seem
                              to be twinkling. And I think, for the most part,
                              they're all moving away from us.

                              Roger, Gene. Thank you.

                              Okay. We've got 0180 and 0 on the old thumbwheels.

                              Okay.

                              Roger, Ron.

                              Okay. TRANS CONTROL is ARMED .

                              . . . two ARMED.

                              CONTROLLER number 2 is ARMED .

                              ... SECS LOGIC ...
00 03 40 01 CMP                                                                                     Tape 5/5

                           LMP  Okay. SECS LOGIC is CLOSED; SECS ARM are CLOSED;
                                LOGIC POWER is ON.
00 03 40 13 cc                  Okay.

                     CDR        17, Houston. You have a GO for T&D.
00 03 40 38 CMP
                                Okay. A GO for T&D.
00 03 41 00 CMP                 Okay. We'll ARM the PYROs. And we'll hit the GDC
                                ALIGN.
00 03 41 19 CMP                 And maneuver's complete. And 0180 and O? On the
00 03 41 42 CMP                 GDC? No. It's just ... It's kind of diddling.
                                Okay. DELTA-Vin NORMAL.
                           LMP  S-IVB, okay. Okay, switches are all set.
                                Okay; 59 : 30 .
00 03 41 55 CMP                 Okay. Let's start the DET.
00 03 41 59 CDR
                                Tickity-tick-tickity, Houston. We're running
                cc              at 59: 30.
                                Roger.
                     CMP        Okay.
00 03 42 12 CMP
                                Okay. That's LAUNCH VEHICLE SEP, push button.
                           LMP  Okay.
                                MC in AUTO.
00 03 42 19 CMP
                     CMP        Next?
                                SEPARATION, Houston.
00 03 42 29 CDR
                     CMP        Okay, check the covers. Okay. And check the
                                other ones off.
                        LMP     They're all ...
                                Okay, I'm going to start the - My gr.,sh, look at
                     CMP        the junk! Okay; there's 15 seconds. Pitch her
                                up. Okay, we'll PROCEED on the - -
Tape 46/4                 Okay. Is that it? Yes, I can get that, Gene.
02 18 4111 CDR
                          Okay, you want to take a picture of it first?
                     CMP  Okay, POWER ... Okay, stand by. 3, 2, 1 -
02 18 41 59 CMP
                          MARK it. POWER switch OFF.
                     CDR
                          Say, Bob or Stu.
               cc
                          Roger. Go ahead.
02 18 42 34 CDR
                          Okay, add - to ad to today. Not last night, but -
                     CC   I guess the first night I was in bed - I definitely
                     CDR  saw some of these - because I had a hard time going
                          to bed, to start with - I saw some of the same
                     CC   peripheral horizon-type things you said were not
                     CDR  the type of data you were looking for; but I also
                     CMP  saw a - some sets of the streaks. And probably
                     CC   the one most imposing thing I remember is - and the
                          last one I remember before falling asleep - was
                          the fact that there was a very bright spot that
                          flashed right between my eyes like a very bright
                          headlight - like a train coming at you, only with
                          a flash. It's difficult probably to estimate the
                          frequency of any of those because I was in a -
                          sort of a sleep-hazy mode.

                          Roger.

                          But then, as today, I saw some that flashed and
                          lit up the horizon and some that lit up peripher
                          ally; and I guess, as you say, that's a different
                          kind of data, but I did see them there and they
                          impressed me.

                          Okay. We got all that, Gene.

                          Okay.

                          And it might be interesting to know I've never
                          seen it before today.

                          Hey, Gene, we appreciate all the data. We were
                          just trying to make the data fit the curve; you
                          know the old trick.
02 l8 44 40 CDR                                                                      Tape 46/5
                      CC
                      CDR  Okay, I just wanted you to - just told them like
                           we saw them. That's all.
                      LMP
                           Roger.
                      CC
                      LMP  I will say one thing, though; no question in my
                           mind but that they're there. Last trip I took,
                      CC   I guess I just wasn't looking for them or paying
                      LMP  any attention to them. Maybe they were there and
                      CC   I ignored them because of other things. But they're
                      LMP  there.
                      CC
                           Okay, all you flash bugs down there - or flash
                           bulbs I guess is the word - frame 50. I just took
                           four pictures to show - two on the side and two
                           on the bottom - to show the position of the ALFMED,
                           and one of them of each set was focused on the
                           ALFMED. The others were focused on the - the
                           other set was focused on the struts.

                           Roger, Jack.

                           And when you don't have anything else to do, why
                           don't you have somebody predict where the S-IVB
                           is. I think I've got her spotted - behind us and
                           above us with respect to the Earth and our travel
                           from it.

                           FIDO just went out and shot himself, but we'll
                           get working on it.

                           Oh, don't worry about it. Shoot. I thought you
                           guys might have an idea off-the-cuff there.

                           No, what's humorous on this, Jack, is they have
                           really been working on that S-IVB impact point -
                           and they've really been - it's been a - a real
                           difficult problem for them so far.

                           I'll tell you, I bet you Ron could give a star
                           sighting on it (laughter). I looked at it through
                           the monocular and sure looks like the S-IVB.

                           Jack, we're not doubting you at all. We could
                           probably start cranking it right now.
Tape 46/6                 Jack, are you sto - you all stowing the ALFMED
                          now or are you done?
02 18 46 46 cc
                          What's that, Bob?
                     CMP
                     CC   Are you all done with the ALFMED now, Ron?
                     CMP
                     CC   Yes, I've got to get it to - get the plate moved
                     CMP  back down there yet.
                     CC
                          Okay, Ron -
                     CMP
                     CC         get the blindfold off first so I can see what
                          I'm doing.
02 18 47 51 CMP
                          Roger. I just want you to know. We've got a real
                     CDR  long update coming up to you here on the LOI abort
                          charts and that - and it's going to be, probably,
                          a difficult readup. And you're the most familiar
                          with the charts; you probably would want to take
                          them. But whenever you want to take them, they
                          are on - charts on page 3-81, 3-82, and then the
                          cue card for LOI limits. Whenever you want to
                          take them. It will be a lengthy one.

                          Stand by, Bob. Let us get squared away from the
                          ALFMED; then we can get going on that.

                          No, I don't want to hurry you, Ron. I just want
                          you to know what - when - just get yourself com
                          fortable and be ready to take them whenever you
                          want them. It's going to be a lengthy time,
                          though.

                          Okay.

                          Hey, Bob, I'm looking at what - what Jack was
                          talking about; and it's definitely not a particle
                          that's nearby because there is another one I can
                          look at and get a three-dimensional comparison
                          with. It is a - it is a bright object, and it's
                          obviously rotating because it's flashing. It's
                          way out in the distance, as I say, because there
                          are particles that are close by and it's obviously
                          not one of those. It's apparently rotating in a
                     CC                                                                    Tape 46/7
02 18 49 02 CDR
                          very rhythmic fashion because the flashes come
                     SC   around almost - almost on time. And it's as we
02 18 50 13 CMP           look back at the Earth, it's up at about 11:00
                          about - oh, maybe 10 or 12 Earth diameters. I
                     CC   don't know whether that does you any good, but
                          there is something out there.
02 18 50 58 CDR
                          Roger. We don't doubt it, Gene. And we might
                     CC   work out a set of gimbal angles or something here;
                     CDR  maybe we can get a look at it through the optics.
                     LMP
                     CDR  Okay. And I - I I just want to emphasize that
                     CDR  it's definitely not - not one of these particles
                          that tends to look like a star out there. It's
                          something physical in the distance. (Laughter)
                          Oh, yes.

                                thing off.

                          Yes, guess I am.

                          Okay, Gene. If you can call up a NOUN 20 so we
                          know the spacecraft attitude, and if you can
                          reference the object you're looking at out of your
                          window, with - with respect to body axis and let
                          us look at your - your - give us a mark, somehow,
                          and give us your NOUN 20s, we can try and get a
                          tie-in and start locating - locating this object
                          down for you.

                          Okay, I'm looking it out - looking at it out the
                          center window - the hatch window - and I'll give
                          you a hack when it crosses the XX axis at the
                          center window; and I guess it's up maybe 45 degrees.

                          Okay, give us a hack and we're copying your
                          NOUN 20s right now.

                          Okay, Jack says pitched up about 30 degrees but - -

                          No. 45, because -

                          Yes, he agrees. It's 45 degrees pitched up, and
                          I'll give you a hack when it crosses the XX axis.

                          Okay -
Tape 46/8                  MARK it. It just crossed through the - -
02 18 51 32 CDR
                           Mark. We got it.
                     CC
                     CDR         let's call it the XZ plane of the spacecraft.
                           One unique thing about it, Bob, is that it's got
02 18 52 18 LMP            two flashes. As it comes around in - in rhythmic
                     LMP   fashion, you get a very bright flash; and then
                           you get a dull flash. And then it'll come around
                cc         with a bright flash, and then a dull flash.

                     CDR   That's the side and - of the S-IVB - and then the
                     CMP   engine bell, Gene.

                cc         The commander doesn't think that I can see the
                           engine bell on that thing.
02 18 53 10 CMP
02 18 55 24 LMP            Roger, Ja.ck. Is that with the monocular you're
                           looking at it?
                      CC
                     LMP   He couldn't see the engine bell if he had 10 monoc
                           ulars.
02 18 56 27 cc
                           Okay. I've got the cable restowed now.
                      CDR
                           Say again, Ron.

                           And, Gene, where's your blindfold? ...

                           Bob, couple of revolutions ago when I was looking
                           at it, I had a much brighter view and I believe
                           I was looking at it broadside. It looks to me like
                           it may be flashing more or less end-on now. It's
                           much, not - not as bright, although it's getting
                           brighter. But it's not as bright now as it was
                           awhile ago.

                           Roger, Jack.

                           ... we've been noticing that, I think, for about
                           24 hours or so. I just - hadn't put it together
                           as maybe being the S-IVB. I thought it was just
                           some other particle out there.

                           Roger, Jack.

                           Hey, Robert, what's the final Cowboy score?
                    CC                                                           Tape 46/9

02 18 56 53 CDR          Okay; I was just going to update that. The Cowboys
                    LMP  won it 34 to 24. And by winning it, they wrap up
                         the wild-card slot in the NFC; and so both Wash
                    CC   ington and Dallas will be in the playoffs.
02 18 58 27 LMP
                         Sounds good.
                    CMP
                    LMP  Bob, that line of clouds I called a fir-tree pat
                    LMP  tern that swings up towards Hawaii: Hawaii, if
                    CC   you will - has - also has a mushroom pattern on
                    LMP  the top. It has the appearance as if tvo major
                    CC   air masses - one going from west to east and the
                    CDR  other form east to west - have converged along
                    CC   that line, and the joint movement of air at the
                    CDR  interface being south to north. And up in the
                         area of Hawaii, I think, it tends to mushroom so
                         that the pattern then goes back to flow from west
                         to east on the east side and from east to west on
                         the west side.

                         Roger.

                         In a little while, we'll probably get a pretty
                         good look at a - what looks like a very concen
                         trated intense storm that, I think, is just - east -

                         *** And then we' 11 put them. once we get updated a
                         little bit. Yes, I'll get out of VOX in a minute.

                         I was looking for the Flight Plan and stuff. And
                         the little books.

                         Say, Bob.

                         Go ahead.

                         Houston, 17. How do you read?

                         Go ahead, Jack. Read you loud and clear.

                         Okay, Bob, you want to update the LOI card and
                         Flight Plan 3-82 and 3-81; is that right?

                         That's affirmative.

                         Which one do you want to start on?
Tape 47/14                And I'll just confirm that the - that disturbance
                          over the So - Solomon Islands is an awfully tightly
                     CC   wound little storm system. And right now, I finally
                     LMP  have see New Zealand for the first time in a couple
                     CC   of days, for sure. And the South Island's got some,
                     LMP  probably high cirrus over it. North Island looks
                          pretty clear. That's the end that I can get right
02 20 55 22 cc            now.

                     CMP  Roger. We saw you looking at Regulus there; we
                     CC   didn't realize you were looking at the Earth
                     CMP  instead.
                     CDR
                          Ron's been looking for the booster. And he called
02 20 56 52 cc            me down and asked me to look at the Earth. He's
                          been holding out on me.
02 21 01 07 LMP
                          Roger.

                          Pass the torch of weather forecasting to Ron.

                          Hey, Jack. I also have some words for you and
                          Gene. Got some advice from the home front. The
                          thing to do with Ron in the future is to hook up
                          a Baby Ben and a metal dishpan. It works every
                          time, if you want to wake him up.

                          No. I think that's not a good way.

                          Ron, everybody I s fine over at El Lago. They are
                          doing great. Listening to every word.

                          Very good, Bob. Thank you very much.

                          Hey, Bob. We got two of those flashers out there.
                          They could be SLA panels. I don't know. They're
                          alike in intensity and pretty regular in the - in
                          the intensity, bright and dim flashes they come
                          out with, and they're widely separated. One is
                          about the position we called at the first time;
                          the other one is - oh, as I'm looking at the Earth,
                          far to the left. Closer to the center window now.

                          Roger.

                          Houston, 17,
                                  Tape 47/15

CC   Go ahead.

LMP  Yes, Bob, what is your - analysis chart, if you

     have it - surface tenns analysis chart show for

     Hawaii today?

CC   Stand by on that.

CC   Jack, according to the - -

LMP  The reason I ask is that for using your term -

     Go ahead.

CC   No, go ahead on that, Jack.

LMP  I was going to say, using your terminator time as

     a partial - mark for where Hawaii ought to be,

     Hawaii ought to be, it looks like that cyclonic

     circulation at the north end of the cloud bank I

     described, approaching that area, would be Just

     about on the Hawa - Hawaiian Islands. I'm curious

     if they're getting some weather down there now.

CC   Stand by right now; I've got my weathennan right

     beside me here.

LMP  Also, that major front we talked about last night

     as being east and south of Japan has progressed

     even farther and is, oh, maybe 20 degrees longi

     tude - about 20 degrees longitude from the Hawaiian

     Islands. And I'm making some guesses on exactly

     where Hawaii is.

CC   Roger, Jack. We've got nothing adverse in the

     Hawaiian area at all. Just a lot of winds , high

     winds and surface winds and surface roughness,

     but we don't have any bad cloud area in the

     Hawaiian area. I'll get the Hickam sequence re

     port here shortly, Jack.

LMP  Okay, ... a little bit. The - our zero-phase

     point is now centered just a little south of the

     disturbance near the Solomon Islands. And I see

     no distinct change in the intensity of that zero

     phase point over what I had talked about a couple

     hours ago.
Tape 47/16                Roger, Jack. The Solomon Islands disturbance
                          and everything is confirmed on this chart that
02 21 04 23 cc            I've got. It's very definitely confirmed in there.

                     LMP  Okey. Well , it's a lot more obvious todey than
                          it was yesterday; but even then it was showing
                     CC   pretty strong circulation. It is starting to
                     LMP  wrap up, look very much like Therese did yesterday.
                     CC
                          Roger. I'm sure of that. The one right off of
                   LMP    Vietnam is also pretty tight, isn't it still?

                     CC   Well, we can't see that one yet.

02 21 05 34 LMP           Okay.

02 21 07 05 cc            Australia in general is still very clear except
                          in the northeastern portions where it looks like
                          they have got scattered clouds; but it looks like
                          a pretty night - over Australia.

                          Roger. Looks that way from the satellite photo
                          from the last couple deys. Looks pretty nice
                          down there.

                          Right.

                          Jack, in looking at the sequence reports for
                          Hickam and Hilo and that area, it looks like they
                          just got their standard 3500 scattered, 4500 broken
                          clouds , maybe a rain shower or two. But just
                          their standard tropical fluffy clouds.

                                      END OF TAPE
                cc                                                         Tape 59/19

03 15 33 25 I.MP    mare. Still looking at Oceanus Procellarum. And

                    now, out window 3, up to the northwest, Grimaldi

                    is starting to show up - a very obvious dark area
                    within the highlands of that part of the Moon -
                    and one of the darkest mare regions that we have
                    seen on the - on the Moon. It I s comparable, at
                    least in the photographs, to that of Tsiolkovsky.

                    Roger.

                    Normally, of course, we think of the dark mare as
                    being the younger basalt flows that - on the Moon,
                    but in our case, of course, young means something

                    on the order of 3 billion years or older.

                                 END OF TAPE
                                             Tape 60/1

APOLLO 17 AIR-TO-GROUND VOICE TRANSCRIPrION

03 15 33 44 cc            Roger.

                     LMP  For our interp - If we can extrapolate from the
                     LMP  samples returned by other missions.

                     CC   Amazing how far over - now the highlands to the
03 15 35 50 CDR           west of Procellarum are - still are bright, and the
                          contrast between fresh craters and the normal high
                     CC   land are very - are very obvious still in earthlight,
03 15 36 35 LMP           particularly along the zero phase point with respect
                          to the Earth. Rima Gamma now is - is coming a lit
                          tle bit closer to our oval track in the horseshoe
                          in the - larger and more western end of it; the
                          dark horseshoe is quite clear in this light. It's
                          a west - or northwest-pointing horseshoe, as is the
                          complete trend of that strange feature. I think
                          Ron is going to have an excellent chance to study
                          these light-colored swirls within the mare and
                          other parts of the Moon. We had some good views
                          of them and Mare Marginis and to the east of
                          Crisium - Mare Crisium, and he should - if there
                          is anything to be seen, he should be able to see
                          it for - during the next few days.

                          Okeydoke.

                          Say, Gordo, something I just noticed here in work
                          ing with the GDC what-have-you. I - looked at the
                          Pc gage, and in the Pz - Pc position, there is a

                          continuous bias on it now of about, oh, 7 percent,

                          and if I switch to ALPHA, it goes to zero. We never
                          saw that bias before this last burn.

                          Roger, Gene.

                          Hey, Gordy, I'm looking right up the western edge
                          of the Procellarum mare where it contacts the -
                          the - the high - western highlands of the Moon, and
                          we're just about to fly a little bit south of
                          Grimaldi. That edge is very irregular. There is
                          no obvious indications that it - there are large
                          basins that have been flooded by mare that have
                          formed that edge, but, again, the topographic dis
                          tinction's possible in this lighter small. Now I'm
                          starting to see that there are shadows in the craters.
 Tape 60/2                  Roger.
                        CC
                       LMP  That's the small craters. There, in the Mare
                            Procellarum closest to Grimaldi, there are two
                       CC   arcuate rilles. Look like they are probably
                       LMP  V-shaped in their cross section. I'm sure we've
                            seen those on the photographs much better than I
03 15 38 09 LMP             can see them here. Those - the rille patterns,
                            though, do seem to project over into the highlands.
                       CC
                       LMP  Okay.

                       CC   To the north of that - to the north of that bay
                       LMP  of mare. Just interrupt.

                       CC   Hey, I just saw a flash on the lunar surface!
                       LMP
                            Oh, yes?
03 15 39 46 LMP
                            It was just out there north of Grimaldi. Just
                       CC   north of Grimaldi. You might see if you got any
                            thing on your seismometers, although a small impact
                            probably would give a fair amount of visible light.

                            Okay. We'll check.

                            It was a bright little flash right out there near
                            that crater. See the crater right at the edge of
                            Grimaldi. Then there is another one north of it.
                            Fairly sharp one north of it is where there was
                            just a thin streak of light.

                            How about putting an X on the map where you saw it.

                            I keep looking occasionally for - yes, we will.
                            I - I was planning on looking for those kind of
                            things. Starting to see the edge of Orientale,
                            Gordy. Way off to the west. Hey, just yell,
                            Gene, anytime you - -

                            Gordy, to the north of Grimaldi there is a large
                            basin that is about the same size but only incom
                            pletely filled with mare in its northeastern
                            quadrant. The rest of it looks like a fairly ir
                            regular and hummocky floor material of some kind.

                            Roger,
