                                 VERBAL LEGAL ADVISEMENT

Good afternoon. Today's date is  . I am                                       from the Office of the

Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security OUSD (I&S).

Before we begin today's discussion, I want to go over a few matters, so the parameters of this discussion
are clear:

1. Do you agree that you are voluntarily participating in this oral history?

2. Do you understand that you may choose to not answer specific questions and that you may end this
interview at any time?

3. Do you understand that the primary purpose of this oral history effort is not to collect information
about you, but to the extent that information about you is collected and maintained by the Department of
Defense during this effort, it may be subject to the safeguards and requirements of the Privacy Act of
1974.

- The principle purpose of this oral history interview is to record your knowledge of historical
     information that focuses on persons, events, and topics of historical interest to the Department
     of Defense and the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security.
     Such historical information may be used as source materials for official memorandums or
     other historical works.

          - Information about you collected during this interview may be shared as a routine use pursuant
               to DoD-0014, DoD Historical Records system of records (87 FR 54204, Sep. 1, 2022) and as
               otherwise authorized pursuant to the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(b)).

4. Do you understand that the transcripts and any materials resulting from this oral history will belong to
the U.S. Government to be used in any manner, consistent with federal law, deemed in the best interests
of the Department of Defense, as determined by the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and
Security?

5. Do you understand that the notes and/or transcripts from this oral history, any other materials, and the
information derived from them may be made available to the U.S. Congress?

6. Do you understand that for the limited purpose of this oral history, and only during the course of our
discussion in this Secure Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF), that the information you disclose is
not subject to any Nondisclosure Agreement you have signed?

          - You are advised that upon completion of this interview today that all non-disclosure agreements
          remain in full force.

7. Do you understand that a knowing and willful false statement during this interview can be punished by
fine or imprisonment or both (18 U.S.C. 1001)?

8. Do you understand that intentionally withholding, misrepresenting, or falsifying information may have
a negative effect on your security clearance, employment prospects, or job status, up to and including
denial or revocation of your security clearance, or your removal and debarment from Federal service?
