          OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

                                    3200 DEFENSE PENTAGON
                                  WASHINGTON, DC 20301-3200

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT:  Authorization to Provide Information to Personnel Representing the All-Domain
          Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO), Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for
          Intelligence and Security (OUSD(I&S))

References: Section 1673 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023

1. Representatives of the All-Domain Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO) are authorized to
speak to persons and/or conduct interviews of persons that currently have, or previously had,
access to sensitive U.S. Government (USG) information, activities, and/or materials.

2. Individuals with current or previous access to Unidentified Aerial Phenomena (UAP)-related
information which is subject to a USG Nondisclosure Agreement are authorized to provide this
otherwise protected information to AARO representatives. AARO personnel are authorized to
receive this information pursuant to Section 1673 of the National Defense Authorization Act
(NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2023. The provision of UAP-related information which is subject to
a Nondisclosure Agreement to AARO personnel constitutes an authorized disclosure if the
information is provided and received for the limited purpose of conducting AARO's assigned
mission as specified in Section 1683 of the NDAA for FY2022, as amended by Section 6802 of
the NDAA for FY2023.

3. AARO representatives will conduct any conversation, interview, or disclosure of USG sensitive
information by an individual only within appropriate secure spaces and handled in accordance
with the regulations applicable to the alleged classification level of the potentially sensitive
information discussed, ( e.g., if the individual providing the information indicates that he/she
believes the information to be shared is classified TOP SECRET, special access required, the
AARO representatives will handle the information in accordance with such a level at intake and
until the classification can be determined).

4. Persons in contact with, or interviewed by, AARO representatives are advised that they are to
continue safeguarding classified and sensitive information in accordance with U.S. law and the
terms of any applicable Nondisclosure Agreement. An individual's authorized disclosure of
sensitive information to AARO representatives as outlined in this memorandum in no way
impacts that individual's responsibility to protect and safeguard classified information from
unauthorized disclosure.

                       DAVID W. ABBA
                       Maj Gen, USAF
                       Director, DoD Special Access Program
                       Central Office
