
=== Page 1 ===
G2: HQ 33304  \ Jor | SERIAL yuq- ONY
JUNIE

=== Page 2 ===
DIRECTOR, FBI 10/3/66

SAC, LOS ANGELES (100-24442-40/)

FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL,

OFFICIAL JOURNAL OF THE i

AMALGAMATED FLYING SAUCER

CLUBS OF AMERICA, INC.

18 - MISCELLANEOUS

The Philadelphia Division by letter dated 9/22/66,

: furnished the Los Angeles Division with Issue No. 24 dated
July, 1966, entitled "FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL", which is
the official journal of the Amalgemated Flying Saucer Clubs

3 of America, Inc. The Philadelphia Division received the
magazine from Mr. JARVIS H. COOPER, IRS, 401 North Broad Street,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on 9/19/66, Mr. COOPER stated he
subscribed to the magazine because his son had exhibited an
interest in flying saucers and outer space. He said that on
pages 2 and 3 of Issue No. 24 was an article which he believed
expounded the Commmist Party (CP) line.

For the information of the Bureau, the International
Headquarters of the Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America,
Inc. is located at 2004 North Hoover Street, Los Angeles,
California. The article, on pages 2 and 3, were allegedly
written by Master KALEN-1.1 RETAN, Head of the plarft KORENDOR,
which was received on 5/4/66 by special directional shortewave
radio by BOB RENAUD.

The indices of the Los Angeles Division contain no
information identifiable with RENAUD, and no investigation has
ever been conducted on captioned organization.

No further action is contemplated in this matter
by the Los Angeles Office, UACB.

The foregoing is furnished to the Bureau for
information,

A) ’ 3
2 - Bureau (RM) (v(-/)
1 - Los Angeles
oe
3 4H q

=== Page 3 ===
= A FF a
LeY F/F/E5-
Tok ry Bi = =
T Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.
E IN
P
oo eee 5
T Bo a g
2 y fs
RE] & ) iii ‘ . Ra
i & OF aR , %. » pe
BA hes Wie Ww 5
Ay his oo 2 x ;
iowa 54 - ON N
: be wr Sy. oe 5 5 ’ p ? :
i SPECIAL AFSCA THIRD NATIONAL FLYING SAUCER CONVENTION ISSUE
ISSUENO. 24 JULY, 1966 50c

=== Page 4 ===
SPECIAL AFSCA CONVENTION MESSAGE
BRIGHT WORLD IN HANDS OF SAUCER MOVEMENT humanity.
Make no mistake. Your government is not in the

(Editor's Note: This special message was White House or the Congress. IT IS IN THE PENTA-
received from Master Kalen-Li Retan (head of the GON, AND IN THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE VAST
planet Korendor, about 400 light years distant) on "DEFENSE''-ORIENTED INDUSTRIES. Itis THEY,
May 4, 1966 via special directional short-wave radio not the President or the Congressmen, who run the
by Bob Renaud, the young electronic-technician whose United States. The facade government is merely to
remarkable story we printed in issues #18, 19, 20, 21, allay undue alarm or suspicion of the people.
and 22, and which will be continued in our next issue. Examine another aspect of the Asian war, the

Since Bob's initial radio contact in 1961, he has ECONOMIC side. Do you recall that, in the stock
talked with the crew of a spacecraft as he watched reports just recently, the Dow-Jones average
them on his special TV screen in his home — and dropped sharply BECAUSE OF A RUMOR THAT
eventually met his contacts in-person; visited their NORTH VIETNAM HAD MADE A PEACE BID? Does
undersea and underground bases on our planet; was the staggering implication of this news evade you?
taken aboard many of their spaceships; and was Stock prices suffering a heavy loss because of a
actually allowed to pilot two of their small scout rumor that peace might come to pass!
craft — one on a short solo flight.) This thought is most distressing. Your economy

relies so heavily upon war and destruction, that if it

"Kalo (Hello), friends. We will get directly to were to stop, THE UNITED STATES ECONOMY
the point of our message to you. Frankly, we are WOULD SUFFER A MASSIVE DEPRESSION! Your
appalled at the state of Earth at present. Despite our money system would collapse like a house of cards.
constant warnings and even our actual intervention in Millions would be unemployed, sick, hungry and
some instances, the condition upon your planet grows homeless, Tremendous industrial complexes would
steadily worse. close their doors.

One subject on everyone's lips these days is The utterly appalling fact is this: WARIS |
Vietnam. From a little civil war, it has grown PROFITABLE. Highly so! Every major conflict has
steadily and inexorably into a full scale conflict been accompanied by a strong peak in your monetary
between the world's three major powers: the United prosperity. Peace has usually been economically
States, the Soviet Union, and Communist China. painful! .

Many influential people have used the approach After World War 1, the nation coasted for a while
of patriotism and love of God and Country to twist upon the fat put on during the boom of the war years.
decent human feelings into dangerous channels of In 1929, the bottom fell out. After the Korean War,
thought and action. With their charges of treason and in the 1950's came another recession. What comes
sympathy with the enemy, they have aroused a good after Vietnam? No one knows, and no one wants to
portion of the populace to a state of fear, distrust, find out. The war in Vietnam is bringing an unheard-
and hatred of those who seek peace and love. Unfor- of degree of affluence in the United States. Why kill
tunately, because some unconventional individuals a good thing by ending the war? The philosopy, in
have been associated with the peace movement, that essence, is this: It is economically expedient to send
entire operation has been seriously hindered. military forces to Vietnam and elsewhere in Asia in

Your government is a military puppet, a mere order to wage war, because in doing so, the United
parrot of the monstrosity that is the Military-Indus- States' economy is bolstered and maintained at a high
trial complex. Your senators, except for a few, are level of prosperity; human life is secondary to the
robots, speaking what they are told to say. preservation of economic well-being! ;

Your President is, unfortunately, a pawn of It is thus evident that, unless a drastic change is
their needs and demands. We have contacted him made in the structure of your economy, war will
several times concerning the state of affairs, and he never end because the Military-Industrial complex
has said that he could do nothing to change them, for WON'T LET IT!
if he were to speak out against the Asian conflict, he Many of you fear Communism. Where did that
would be removed. This is what happened to the late fear come from, I ask you? From within yourself?
Mr. Kennedy who, in his great humanitarianism, was NO! It was brainwashed into you by the Military-
reluctant to sacrifice his ideals and his visions for Industrial complex. Who controls all your news
the sake of the Military Industrial octopus. He paid media? The government and the advertisers. Who,
the supreme penalty for his efforts in behalf of then, is in a position to dictate what shall be printed?

FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL
ISSUE NO. 24 Official Journal of the JULY, 1966

Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.

International Headquarters: 2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles, Calif. 90027,U.S.A.
GABRIEL GREEN, Editor Dedicated to
HELEN GREEN, Asst. Ed. The Physical, Spiritual, and Economic Emancipation of Man A Non-profit Organization
FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL (6 issues-$3.00. | notice will be enclosed in the last issue for which you
Membership-$1. 00) is published quarterly. Copyright |have paid. New subscriptions will start with the last
© 1965 by Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of issue published, unless a specific starting issue num-
America. All rights reserved. The information ber is requested. When writing to AFSCA for a reply,
presented in '"Flying Saucers International" does not enclose a stamped self-addressed envelope. Not
necessarily represent the views of AFSCA. The num- |responsible for magazines lost in the mail due to sub-
ber after your name on the address label indicates the |scribers' failure to inform us of their current address-
issue with which your subscription expires. Subscrip- |es. Prices subject to change. Payment must accompa-
tion renewals will start where the previous one ended, |ny order. Send cash, check or money order to: AFSCA;
and will be acknowledged only by the new number after | 2004 North Hoover St.; Los Angeles, California 90027.
your name on future issues. A "Time to Renew" Phone: 662-4404. 2

=== Page 5 ===
FLYING SAUCER NEWS IN BRIEF

NEW BOOKS NOW AVAILABLE FROM AFSCA:
Price includes 15¢ mailing charge. California Saucers. Brochures are 1¢ each (this just about pays
residents also add 49 sales tax.) the postage to mail them to you). Saucer post cards
1. COUNCIL OF SEVEN LIGHTS by George Van are 50 for $1.00.
Tassel, now reprinted — $3.65. WHEN WRITING AFSCA, if you wish a personal
2. THE ADVENT OF THE COSMIC VIEWPOINT by reply to a specific inquiry, please enclose a stamped,
Bryant Reeve — $6.15. self-addressed envelope. No replies can otherwise
3. FLYING SAUCERS THROUGH THE AGES by Paul be sent. General information may be obtained via

‘ Thomas — $4.15. our brochures and magazines. We are sorry that we

4. OTHER TONGUES, OTHER FLESH by George cannot have a lengthy correspondence with all the
Hunt Williamson, now reprinted — $6. 10. hundreds of persons who would like us to do so, but
5. SECRET OF THE ANDES by Brother Philip - $4. unfortunately we have neither the time nor the staff
6. FLYING SAUCERS AND THE THREE MEN by for it — and our mail has been greatly increased in
Albert K. Bender — $4.15. the last few months.
7. FLYING SAUCERS - SERIOUS BUSINESS by SAUCER NEWS CLIPPINGS: Your response has
Frank Edwards — $6.10. been wonderful! We've received so many clippings
8. INCIDENT AT EXETER by John G. Fuller -$6. 10. from you helpful people that we simply hadn't enough
9. THE HOLLOW EARTH by Dr. Raymond Bernard, space to print all your individual names and cities.
now available again in soft cover for $3.15. So we say a big and sincere THANKS to all of you.

PAST CONVENTIONS & SAUCER ACTIVITIES: And please do keep 'em coming! (One reminder:
FEBRUARY 5, 6, 1966: Dr. Frank E. Stranges' 4th please DON'T write on or near the clippings.)
Annual UFO Space and Science Convention was held at WEDDING BELLS rang on Saturday, June 4, 1966
the Blarney Castle Inn Annex in Los Angeles. for contactee Elary J. Willsie and Sophia Martinez
JUNE 4,5,6, 1966: Dr. Daniel W. Fry's Man in Olivares of Mexico City. The ceremony took place
Space Symposium took place at Dunsmuir, near Mt. at Los Angeles, California. Among those present
Shasta in Northern California. were Sophia's parents and her younger sister, all of
JUNE 25, 26,27, 1966: Buck Nelson's 10th Annual Mexico City; Mrs. Maud Willsie, mother of the
Spacecraft Convention was held at Buck's Mountain groom; and your editor, who was also official photog-
View Ranch; Route 1, Box 236; Mountain View, Mo. rapher for the occasion. Mr. and Mrs. Willsie will

BACK ISSUES of UFO INTERNATIONAL are now live in Los Angeles. Congratulations and best wishes,
selling 11 issues for $3.00, while they last (issue Elary and Sophia!

#11 is now out of print). There is much timeless and MEL NOEL, former Air Force Lieutenant and
valuable information available in these magazines. fighter pilot, is fast becoming very well known for his
OUT OF PRINT: 1. FLYING SAUCERS: TOP lectures on his amazing experiences with Flying

SECRET by Major Donald E. Keyhoe is now out of Saucers while on active duty in the service. He has
print, although it is listed in our new brochure. been speaking to capacity crowds wherever he goes.

(Some saucer books have occassionally gone out of On Thursday, June 23, 1966, the personable Mr.
print without notice.) Noel spoke to a standing-room only crowd at the
2. BACK ISSUES #6 and 11 are now out of print. We Aeronautical Sciences Building on Beverly Blvd. in
still have only a few copies left of #9 which we have West Los Angeles. We hear that he is booked to
priced at $1.00 each in an effort to preserve them for speak at 57 colleges across the nation! Recently he
serious researchers and collectors. Please do not appeared on the Louis Lomax TV Show, and has been
order these items, or any other materials which we heard on many radio shows. He leaves shortly for
do not advertise. Mexico City, where he has been invited by an official
PRICE CHANGE: The price has gone up on two government group to speak. He has been promised
of the better known books in the saucer field, which some interesting experiences by a local contactee
we must now order from England: 1. THE SKY there, and we look forward to hearing his report on
PEOPLE by Brinsley le Poer Trench, was $4.65. his return! Good work, Mel, and good luck!
It is now $5.10, postpaid. 2. ROAD IN THE SKY by SID PADRICK, contactee from Watsonville,
George Hunt Williamson, was $4.15. It is now $5.10, Calif., who spent two hours aboard a space craft,
postpaid. California residents please add 47 tax. was recently in Los Angeles when he was guest
"UFOI'" ISSUE #23 CORRECTIONS: Page 4, line speaker at the regular monthly meeting of the Ingle-
3: the date should be April 24, 1964, instead of wood Unit of Understanding on Saturday, June 25,
1965. On page 4, line 1 of the 7th paragraph, insert 1966. Meetings are held on the 4th Saturday of every
"later, via telepathy'' after "They told him ---." month at the Inglewood Business and Professional
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON area residents please Woman's Club; 820 Java St., Inglewood, at 8:00 P.M.
note: AFSCA Unit #25 meets every 4th Friday at the Donation is $1.00. Information: Mrs. Roberta T.
Seattle Public Library, Room 325 at 7:30 P. M., Forrester, Program Chairman; P.O. Box 146;
under the capable direction of Mr. Leverett G. Inglewood, Calif. 90306. Phone: 677-5214. Also,
Tallman. The meeting is free, and all who are Mr. and Mrs. Lee Yates. Phone: 293-4743.
interested in the Flying Saucer subject are invited to NEW AFSCA UNITS:
come to listen and to participate in the discussion. 45. AFSCA Unit #45; Everett, Washington;
ZIP CODES ARE IMPORTANT: If the address Ray and Jean Sebring, Co-Directors;
label on this magazine does not have your zip code 1032 S. W. 126th St.; Seattle, Wash. 98146.
number on it, please notify us as to what your num- 46. AFSCA Unit #46; Ben Blazs, Director;
ber is. If you don't know your number, call your 3057 Electric; Lincoln Park, Mich. 48146.
local Post Office and then let us know. Thanks! Several other new AFSCA Units have been formed
AFSCA BROCHURES AND SAUCER-PHOTO and will be listed in the next issue (#25). Persons
POST CARDS, sent to friends and acquaintances, are interested in forming AFSCA Units in their cities
a good way to help spread the word about Flying should contact AFSCA Headquarters for information.
15

=== Page 6 ===
AFSCA's
(Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America )
3rd National
SAUCER
MONE REGISTER
* SLIDES gy RT
* EXHIBITS $2.00 ga a
* BOOKS At The Beautiful, New 5 POE WKS.
* RITERATURE CENTENNIAL COLISEUM (4590 S. Virginia St.)
Reno, Nevada - July 8,9,10, 1966
Program: 10 A.M. to 11 P.M.

SPEAKERS ARE: Wayne S. Aho, Carl A. Anderson, Orfeo Angelucci, Michael "X'" Barton,

Wesley Bateman, Marianne Francis, Dr. Daniel W. Fry, Calvin C. Girvin, Gabriel Green,

Dr. George King, Hanno Mayberry, Howard Menger, Laura Mundo, Mel Noel, Sidney Padrick,

Chief Standing Horse, Dr. Frank E, Stranges, Mollie Thompson, Hope Troxell, George W.

Van Tassel, Hal Wilcox.

k : Ca - 5 .
7 dims oR K, png E rE.

HEAR: Amazing experiences with spacecraft from other planets and their occupants by the

greatest assembly of contactee-speakers since our Los Angeles convention in 1959
; at the Statler-Hilton.

SEE: Startling new photographic evidence —the biggest collection of Flying Saucer photos
on display in the history of the saucer movement. Actual color movies and new still
photos of Flying Saucers.

MEET: IN PERSON, PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD ACTUAL CONTACTS WITH SPACESHIPS
AND THEIR CREWS FROM OTHER WORLDS.

LEARN: About this important subject which is so vital to the welfare and survival of humanity
in our times.

ATTEND: AFSCA's 3rd National Convention. You'll be glad you did! Fill out the Advance
Registration form below. Do it Now!

For Motel & Hotel room information, write to: The Greater Reno Chamber of Commerce
P.O. Box 2109; Reno, Nevada
I ERTS MI MR 0 S304 WY A TY TU SAAT CT Sa fC LAD EY § FANT I Le A SL LN A SARL SAS TST TT A 191 WR TIA EE
AFSCA 3rd NATIONAL CONVENTION ADVANCE REGISTRATION FORM
To: AFSCA Headquarters; 2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles, Calif. 90027. Phone: 662-4404.
Yes, count me in! I don't want to miss joining with you at this important convention

and helping to support this vital movement. Here is my $ . Please send me

Advance Reservation tickets ($5.00 for the 3 days, or $2.00 per day). IMPORTANT: Iam

also enclosing a stamped, self-addressed envelope for the return of my tickets. ADVANCE

REGISTRATIONS must be received at AFSCA Headquarters no later than JUNE 30th!!!

Name Street

City State Zip Code

=== Page 7 ===
The Military-Industrial complex, by opinion-control We are able to increase our height while on
through the use of psycho-politics (brainwashing by Earth through a technical process related to telepor-
controlled news management). tation. It is concerned with recording the atomic and
Consider this: In order to survive, a commer- molecular structures of our bodies, and then repro-
cial medium, such as a newspaper or magazine, ducing them identically on a larger scale. Differ-
requires a vast amount of advertising revenue. The ences in our internal structure are adjusted by the
mere subscription fees will not cover the costs. computer which controls the reproducer.
Thus, they depend for their continued existence upon Our most common skin color is a little darker
money paid by advertisers. Suppose, then, that the than yours, although we have skin colors which vary
editor of a certain newspaper decides that he is as yours do all over the Earth. Usually, however,
opposed to the Vietnam policy, and says so in his we would look "tan' to you. We are NOT green, blue,
paper. The advertisers simply say to the editor, or heliotrope, as has been suggested!

"Either you toe the mark and print what we want, or Concerning our language, we generally use one
we'll withdraw our advertising." of two tongues and we are fairly familiar with a third.
Such pressures are a fact of life. The newsmen On Korendor itself we speak the native language,
are torn between their higher devotion to Truth, and Korendian. It is similar in many ways to your own
also to the lower level of their physical needs. languages since it, like yours, was originally derived

Rather than jeopardize their security and their from Galingua, one of the two universal tongues.
futures they, of course, submit meekly to power. The other is Solex Mal, which is more familiar to
Their actions are fully understandable, and we do not you, since it is used by your local Solar System
hold them responsible. planets. It is seldom heard now in our sector of
We throw the blame directly on the Military- space, as Galingua has replaced it almost completely.
Industrial complex which, by its underhanded dealing, Unlike your own, however, the Korendian-
| threats of force, and economic pressure and retali- Galinguan speech is very rhythmic, and has few
ation, has crushed the spirit of American journalism sibilant sounds, such as ''s" or ''z'. Some of the
and turned it from a dynamic motivating force in sharper sounds like ''c" and "k'" are minimized. It is
Amerjcan life into a weak-willed, subservient a beautiful language which is very musical and
mouthpiece for the power-masters. We blame them pleasant to hear.
for the death of journalistic freedom and individuality! Perhaps you would be surprised to learn that
One more comment on this topic: May I say that ancient Latin was liberally taken from Galingua.
a better economic system is already known to the There are many similarities in the two languages.
leaders of the Flying Saucer Movement. It is the Even modern English has roots on other worlds!
system known as Universal Economics. As we have In concluding my message to you, may I say —
said over and over before, it is the non-money people of Earth: open up your minds and your hearts
economic system which MUST be applied on your to the world around you. There is so much to be
planet before you can start to resolve most of your learned, so much to be discovered. Don't waste
major problems and thus begin to establish a highly- precious hours and days in bigotry and ignorance,
advanced, non-destructive state of existance on and in senseless fighting and killing. To do so is
Earth, such as we of more advanced planets have truly a crime against nature and humanity.
enjoyed for so long. INVESTIGATE THIS SYSTEM At this stage where you have the very stars
to evaluate it for its merit — then ACT to apply it! almost in your grasp, how irrational and barbaric it
YOUR VERY SURVIVAL AS A CIVILIZATION MAY is to spend futile hours warring with your brothers.
DEPEND UPON IT! As an old saying on your world puts it: ''As you make
Perhaps this is an opportune time to clarify a your bed, so shall you lie in it." The decision does
few questions which have been asked about us. not seem difficult. Here are the alternatives: A
Do we of Korendor work with the local planets world living in harmony, justice, security and abun-
in our operations? Yes, we do cooperate with them dance for all, or a world continuing to reap the
a great deal. However, our work on Earth is bloody harvests that grow from the seeds of hatred
relatively independent of the local planets. We have and mistrust. If left to their own devices, the
many times overstepped what is considered to be the majority of mankind will forge onward to a destiny of
limit of interference upheld by Venus, Mars, and destruction and annihilation, oblivious to the danger
other planets. This has caused a good deal of debate in their actions. They are short-sighted; they care
between them and us. Each time we have pointed out little for the future.
that we of Korendor are basically pragmatic in nature. It is you New Age people, dedicated to the wel-
Although we do respect the laws of self-destiny, we fare of all mankind, and having the vision and under-
feel also that where stepping in is required to prevent standing of the ways to build the better world of
disaster, it is our right and our duty to do so. tomorrow, who must lead the way. You have the
We have interfered in such places as the United future in YOUR hands, if you will but shoulder your
States, China, Russia, and on a large scale in responsibilities. The Flying Saucer Movement, as
Vietnam. This has caused no end of consternation in you call it, belongs to you. Support it in every way
the local Tribunal of Planets. We are sympathetic to possible. Help it to grow until it is influential
their viewpoint, but we do feel that their policy is thoughout your world. Go out into the world and
limited in its capacity to achieve the desired goals. guide the misguided, find the lost, and recover the
It is our opinion that one cannot stand on the sidelines strays. We are behind you all the way. As we have
and achieve any noticeable results. said many times before, we will take two steps for
As I have said before, we have infiltrated your every one that you take to help yourselves.
planet. We are directly involved in Earth's life. The time has come for nations to "bury the
You might say that you have been invaded — a strong hatchet', to clasp hands, and plunge into the future
way of phrasing it, to be sure, but nonetheless together — in co-operation toward mutual goals.
factual, since we walk and work amongst you daily! Look to the heavens and realize that your destiny
We have been asked about our physical appear- is not in bleak atomic desolation, but in the magnifi-
ance. We are humanoid, indistinguishable from cent greatness that you can achieve if you will but
yourselves, except that in our natural form we aver- work for it. Choose the right path and you will soon
age three to four feet in height. Every other dimen- qualify to join with us in our journeys amongst the
sion is proportionately scaled, so that photographs of stars.
us would not reveal our origin in any way. Va i Luce (Go in Light)." Kalen-Li Retan 3

=== Page 8 ===
THIRD NATIONAL CONVENTION H H CENTENNIAL COLISEUM
dg (hag Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America ag hey
FRIDAY, JULY 8, 1966 | SATURDAY, JULY 9, 1966 | SUNDAY, JULY 10, 1966
TIME MAIN HALL GOLD ROOM 1 MAIN HALL GOLD ROOM | MAIN HALL 8 GOLD ROOM
[GAM |REGISTRATION:($2.00 per day). Exhibits, books, & literature on display. Your Reno host, Miguel Ribera, Dir., AFSCA Unit No.5.
10AM|INVOCATION: Dr. Frank E. Stranges. HAL WILCOX AFSCA Unit Directors Flying Saucer Council
to Keynote Address: GABRIEL GREEN, '""Some-|| "From Earth to Alpha | Meeting. Those inter- Meeting (for all speak-
10:50 | thing Big Is Happening". Introduction of Centauri" Ch: Chief | ested in forming ers only). Ch: Gabe
speakers, & saucer movement personalities. Standing Horse AFSCA Units invited. Green. Discussion of
11:00 | WAYNE AHO HANNO MAYBERRY |DR.Frank STRANGES ways to improve effect
to |"Secrecy Must Go--- "Message From "The Hollow Earth iveness of Flying Sauc-
11:50 | People Must Know!" Triangulum" Mystery" er Movement.Come pre
Ch:Orfeo Angelucci Ch: Laura Mundo Ch: Orfeo Angelucci pared with suggestions.
11:50AM to 1:30PM LUNCH |Space Tapes(12:15-1:)]] LUNCH Space Tapes(12:15-1:15)] LUNCH Space Tapes(12:15-1:15)
1:30 | Chief Standing Horse CARL ANDERSON MICHAEL BARTON CARL ANDERSON
to "My 4 Day Trip to "I Was Teleported Into| "UFO's and World "Kumar, Wonder Man
2:20 |Mars, Venus,Clarion, A Flying Saucer" Prophesy" From Mars"
& Orion'' Ch: Mel Noel Ch: Mel Noel Ch: G. Green Ch: Frank Stranges
2:30 | HOPE TROXELL CALVIN GIRVIN DR. GEORGE KING GEORGE Van TASSEL | SIDNEY PADRICK
to "Evolved Man of the "I Was an Agent for thg "The Nine Freedoms" "Flying Saucer Land - | "Saucer Ride-1965"
3:20 |Stars" Extraterrestrials" ing at Edwards Air
Ch: Michael Barton Ch: Wes Bateman Ch: Wayne Aho Force Base'' Ch:D.Fry| Ch: Wes Bateman
MOLLIE THOMPSON (Space Age Songs) | MOLLIE THOMPSON (Space Age Songs) | MOLLIE THOMPSON (Space Age Songs)
3:40 |HOWARD MENGER HANNO MAYBERRY DR. DANIEL W. FRY | WESLEY BATEMAN DR. GEORGE KING CALVIN GIRVIN
to |"Journey to the Moon" | "Contact With a7 Foot|| "The White Sands "The Frequency "Physical Space Con- | "Moon Mysteries
4:30 Tall Spaceman" Incident" Barrier" tact in Hollywood" Revealed"
Chairman: Hal Wilcox | Ch:Ch.Standing Horse || Ch: George Van Tassel | Ch: Marianne Francis || Ch: Michael Barton Ch: G. Green
4:40 |DR.FRANK STRANGES| MARIANNE FRANCIS || GABRIEL GREEN ORFEO ANGELUCCI WAYNE AHO MARIANNE FRANCIS
to "A Space Beings Visit "Starcraft Contact" "Abundant New World: | "Secret of the "Flying Saucers and "Messages From Our
5:30 |to the Pentagon" The Promise for Tom- Saucers the Latter Days" Space Brothers"
Chairman: Dan Fry Ch: Hanno Mayberry morrow" Ch:F.Stranges| Ch: Hanno Mayberry || Ch: Carl Anderson Ch: Calvin Girvin
5:30 to 7:00PM__ DINNER __ |Space Tapes(6:15-7:15)] DINNER Space Tapes(6:15-7:15) || DINNER Space Tapes (6:15-7:15)
7:00 | WESLEY BATEMAN LAURA MUNDO "A SIDNEY PADRICK HOPE TROXELL HOWARD MENGER HAL WILCOX
to "Flying Saucer Saucer Researchers "2 Hours Aboard an "Temples of the High || "Free Energy: Tomor-| '"Zemkla, Interplane-
7:50 | Propulsion (Slides) Responsibility to Hu- || Extraterrestrial Space Places" row's Revolutionary tary Avatar"
Ch: Sid Padrick manity' Ch:H.Menger || ship" Ch: H. Menger | Ch: Carl Anderson Power" Ch: Geo. King | Ch: Laura Mundo
\ MOLLIE THOMPSON (Space Age Songs) | MOLLIE THOMPSON (Space Age Songs) | MOLLIE THOMPSON (Space Age Songs)
8:10 | MEL NOEL "Investi- | MICHAEL BARTON GEORGE Van TASSEL | Chief Standing Horse DAN FRY MEL NOEL "I Photo-
to gating Flying Saucers | "Flying Saucer Slide "Spaceship Contact at | "Christmas 1962 on "Saucer Movies" graphed Flying Saucers
E 9:00 |Inside the U.S. Air Photos" Giant Rock" Jupiter" GABE GREEN as an Air Force Fight-
Force' Ch: G. Green | Chairman: Hal Wilcox|] Ch: George King Ch: Calvin Girvin "Saucer Slides" er Pilot" Ch:H, Troxell
9:10 |DR. DANIEL W. FRY [| ORFEO ANGELUCCI || COLOR MOVIE: LAURA MUNDO Question Period: Writ-| Written Questions
to "The Curve of Devel- | "Concret Evidence" "We Have Seen The "Flying Saucers and ten questions answered|answered by today's
10:00 | opment" Saucers" the Father's Plan" by Main Hall speakers.|Gold Room speakers.
Chairman: Sid Padrick | Ch: Wayne Aho Ch: George Van Tassel | Ch: Marianne Francis ||Chairman: Gabe Green | Chairman: Mel Noel ¥
10:10 | Question Period. Writ-| Written questions Question Period: Writ-| Written questions Convention Close.
to ten questions answered answered by today's ten questions answered| answered by today's
11:00 | by Main Hall speakers Gold Room speakers. || by Main Hall speakers. Gold Room speakers.
Ch: Gabriel Green Ch: Michael Barton Chairman: Gabe Green| Ch: Frank Stranges
The appearance of the speakers on our program does you with an opportunity to hear and to evalu- No smoking permitted in lecture and exhibit
not constitute an endorsement by AFSCA of their in- ate Flying Saucer Movement speakers and halls. The Dick Miller Space Tapes played at
formation or viewpoints. In the American tradition their information. You be the judgé. lunch and dinner hours are all different.
- of freedom of information and ideas, AFSCA provides Taped space songs by Bob Marcus. Program subject to change without notice. :
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, contact: AFSCA HEADQUARTERS; 2004 N. Hoover St.; Los Angeles, California 90027. Phone: 662-4404.

=== Page 9 ===
FLYING SAUCER NEWS IN BRIEF
COMING 1966 FLYING SAUCER CONVENTIONS walking around the premises, left his blessing on the
TB Ae he Aetherius Society and its work. For further inform-

JULY 8,9,10: AFSCA's 3rd National Convention, ation call 465-9652, or write to the above address.
Centennial Coliseum, Reno, Nev. (See details on back) DELLA LARSON, who for over a decade was the

JULY 15,16,17: WAYNE AHO sponsors the guiding light and main instigator of Flying Saucer
Northwest's 5th Annual Interplanetary Age Conven- meetings and activities in the San Francisco Bay
tion. Lectures, exhibits and New Age topics. Ad- Area, passed away on October 25, 1965. She was
vance registrations — $1.00 per day for adults, 50¢ 70 years old. She will be remembered for her
for students. Write to: Mrs. Lorena Vogt; 815 N.E. energetic and enthusiastic dedication to the goals of
110th; Seattle, Wash. Phone: Emerson 3-0956. the Flying Saucer cause, as well as for the highly

AUGUST 6 thru 14th: DR. NEVA DELL successful annual Northern California Space Craft
HUNTER'S 12th Annual Quimby Conference of Trans- Conventions which she organized for nine years.
lation. Lectures and discussions on New Age Topics, (Della, we salute you!)
including the stars, science and metaphysics. In MAX MILLER, former publisher of the now-
lovely scenic country at a beautiful, modern motor- defunct "Saucers'' magazine, and author of "Flying
hotel. $2.50 per day, attendance. Information from: Saucers: Fact or Fiction" (now out of print), has a
Quimby Center; P.O. Box 453; Alamogordo, N. M. new role. He is now editor-publisher of "Real" mag-

AUGUST 19,20,21: SPACE RESEARCH, Inc.'s azine which may be found on the newstands for 50¢.
Second Annual Convention, at the North Branch The August '66 issues devotes about half of its space to
YMCA in Spokane, Washington. Scenic location near the Flying Saucer subject and will be well worth your
the Spokane River. Indoor and outdoor convention investigation.
activities. For information, write to: Space WILBUR MILLER, one of the early researchers
Research Inc., No. 6815 Julia, Spokane, Wash. in the Flying Saucer Movement, passad away on

OCTOBER 22,23: GEORGE VAN TASSEL'S 13th March 5, 1966. He was known for his fine channel
Annual Spacecraft Convention at Giant Rock, Calif. in contacts with several Space Beings, including Monka
the desert 17 miles north of Yucca Valley. Bring of Mars. He also was the co-author — with his wife,
your own camping equipment and enjoy the outing. Evelyn — of the book "We of the New Dimension."

OCTOBER 29, 30: 10th ANNUAL NORTHERN Although he was a native of Missouri he had, in
CALIFORNIA SPACECRAFT CONVENTION, Clare- recent years, been a resident of Los Angeles and of
mont Hotel, Berkeley, Calif. Info: Angela Kilsby; Morongo Valley, Calif. (Good journey, Will!)

1265 Montgomery Blvd.; San Francisco, Calif. 94127. HOPE TROXELL, founder of the School of

OUR NEW NAME: Our magazine, formerly Thought, now situated in Independence, Calif. (P.O.
called "UFO International', has now become "Flying Box 458), reported recently that the neighboring
Saucers International", which we feel to be a more towns of Bishop and Lone Pine had partial blackouts
appropriate title, since Flying Saucers are no longer during an evening channel (teltpathic) session she was
Unidentified Flying Objects as far as we are concern- having with the Space Brothers. The lights in Inde-
ed. Flying Saucers have become a serious issue pendence went out completely for several minutes by
with thinking people all over the world. We believe a gradual fade-out, and then came on again in the
that most of the objects which have been sighted have same manner. During this time, the Space Being
been of extraterrestrial origin, controlled by intelli- speaking through Hope said to those present: 'Be not
gent beings who, in form, are very much like us. afraid. We are guardians of the race. Protection
Therefore, we hope you will understand our reasons will be given to those in the area."
for changing titles, and that you will continue to HAL WILCOX made a fine guest appearance on
enjoy reading our publication under its new banner. the Joe Pyne TV Show, April 30, 1966. Hal passed

DR. RAYMOND BERNARD, founder of the the lie-detector test with flying colors and conducted
Biosophical Society of Santa Caterina, Brazil, passed himself with dignity and fortitude, which isn't always
away on Sept. 10, 1965. He was the author of "The easy on the Joe Pyne Show. During the test, Hal
Hollow Earth' and several other books concerned stated that he had taken a saucer ride to visit the
with the hollow earth theory. second planet from the star, Alpha Centauri.

MARIA ELLIOTT, contactee, psychic and M.I.N. D. stands for Mental Investigations of
founder of Maria Creative Womanhood Foundation, New Dimensions, an organization recently formed by
was a recent guest on the Bob Grant Radio Show, and Wesley and JoNell Bateman. Their activities include
the Pamela Mason TV Show. Glamorous Maria now meetings, courses and public appearances. They
has her own program every Tuesday afternoon at have demonstrated on several occassions for groups
2:30 p.m. on KTYM radio. She may be seen in of up to 20 people, their ability to telepathically
person every Wed. evening at Holland House Restau- direct the movements of visable spacecraft overhead.
rant, 8:00 p.m. in the downstairs meeting room. Write: M.L.N.D.; 4916 Franklin Ave.; Hollywood,
An interesting program may be heard on New Age California 90027. Phone: 661-1731.

Topics, and free readings are given. For more HELEN & GABRIEL GREEN contributed their
information about Maria's appearances, classes, bit to the education of nearly 300, 000 young people to
etc., phone 657-1631, or write: Dr. Maria Elliott; the saucer subject at the Teen-Age Fair, April 1 thru
1543 Sunset Plaza Drive; Los Angeles, Calif. 90069. 10 at the Hollywood Palladium, where AFSCA had a

DR. GEORGE KING, founder of the Aetherius booth to exhibit saucer photos, show slides, and to
Society, was host at the official opening of the disseminate information. We handed out over 13,000
Society's new headquarters at 6202 Afton Place; Los brochures and saucer photo post cards, and talked
Angeles, Calif. 90028; on March 5, 1966. After the ourselves hoarse answering questions for 12 hours
program Dr. King personally escorted us around the each day. Gabriel also made over a dozen radio and
attractive quarters. He also reported that a high TV appearances and interviews during the Fair.
Space Being in physical form had visited there We also had another booth at the National
recently for an hour and fifteen minutes and, after Aviation and Aerospace Exhibition at the Pan Pacific
14 Auditorium, May 17 thru 22. Yes, we've been busy!

=== Page 10 ===
— cose :

i i : BIS Z Wondon ree (82:41 “Lewiston pe |
HSS & LEWISTON PEOPLE
1s Guster 2 0NO1 1 [me

S as !
i Westers Cutarios Foremost Newspaper jt A oH
Rb persons 1
| Ceion police sad Patric
= Lair el Tore Re. tid
_ (56 ut bea su wm |
118th YEAR OF PUBLICATION LONDON, ONTARIO, TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 1966—36 PAGES * * iy koa oof
SEE BEE SE Lin nas sod pes ot
[i Se m2e2 5
{an Geibed ‘2s Bice” oon
[5 gr Sr om shape |
ay sis e UP hovered
for a few seconds and thea|
[ack of SF igh rae ot
iE Se Re
| =
»
—————————————————————————————————————
An nid fying ob Woolsock The myerious mms were travelling slowly let planes caring he ueisl ls far more advanced (han Onlario sightings came from Thorndale, & mother and ber
et wl tked Dr on Shjects came I 8 vary of wih Iisrmimat DAs of tod und Ere running Menta Sn7OMnE wo have and lo son. London and Saree oo chr ww & white Hehe
Barty TTR fi Tem form costing to lr ob pt i ar ThA viper ried by 5 pare Slee ate 3 Paine of 1008 Ox: whe Meh 1. the 47, tank
Tam a Michiana might, sorere. x pokeeman at the US. ire on ha td re Sen go EU On ed 4 0 Winking En
S00 mitts of new eRk: Toure was gn orn one st Air Foro bao in Bridge, Mal Donald E. Kiphoo, the sac a as [
ings wer ropored by Western Sarnia And another ving off Mich sid om was {racked Marine officer who advineed These things are real und fed & TKS UES in he Mrs J ML Haynes of Kino 50 reported te
Oar vie Ta whe and os flaiben bral on radar bot Tooul the terobese spo eeahy Under elon soeirl” ha hori 7. Mesded for ld hers aa wud [agent Bovered ove Basten
eine UL Daies Oops Thies waa & od te 1a Low. ek oy YhoL £m horn Bl te Na. Si. Ho weed te si fore Smtod 2 738) Bn, gg. os | dead tn Lon for more
malar sd pesteriay hor 40n hat had & punting white Some Sosorvers mid hel Uonay oveigntons Commit: $0 ond the ocr 3 Hebe: le ar Ee ve aan weakd dm a rs
Baie) "ime ht han The cme 1 Kini vis MEhLngs a yor About een Aer) Fhenamens, Inge and 8p. rieuing the Iord Baxier, at 110 reported brighten uh, then t would dim | 23 LS ALL
they tre observation devices & bright white light that in. seven minutes Other reported called on the U.S. Government - Competent witaesses” whohave Soe an orange and yellow 407 roo. | BE. Srvind which & white
Seoul by & superior cv. {enmity faded 10 $ul ed Rewpig (he lect In MUnt fo Tesoriay ts ve, uh ihe sve the fiche moving wry lowly la “Twas moviag eve | i: Sma pment.
iaaton: Some of them were high Up 10 So hours Tiverton. 1 bas on UPD. Nephon, who has written the northeast, Ho wtimated 0 1, : [ en rs, me
Sightings of the objects tailing it through the sky like The Free Press sent five sightings. several books on the subject to be more than 1000 feet Her daughter, Wendy, 15- ty.
were reported last night over mad and some of them were men out Martian-hunting, two “There is substantial evi- of UFO's, is director of the high year-old Ingersoll District Col- A star - like object coasted
hing fm Sr, Sing. Hor tn mia Sem 13 Steed lane dene we ar Png Cond vetgnions ome Fiten minute ter a Kin Iglesia aden ee | acres ng ay ovr Sara
Ti inion mores of Some were Poking sho and bu found only two MERCOInE by some Hor of device WHR To arty of the Western lore in be east Sh sho aw & eur white | Jo 0 NT, ue, Sern
Tat which kes dimming 424
————————————————————————————————————————————————— "0 TO os at to:
March 17, ‘66! Tre cn _ terrae mest we | "000 SOT on
THE SUN-BULLETIN—Binghamton, $6 (THE TELEGRAM, Toronto, Sat, March oT Mont.-Star, 4-19-6650 insisted that when it be- forgo 0 a
ill “flying Pho Fiod came am cou me a rd X
) | Photographed 55: Gung a sod bie Sashes
Not star,sayscollector Swamp gas sti AC LC SN er men ro Ln ln
lying Saucer, |Jsisies Wem Tow | ~stmis yee re
. hot DETROIT +o PY) 7 Dr: J. Allen Hynek, the sidestepped mention of the| Picture Censored sob mete via three | 3 pn “ne object was fist
[eo] ying squcer pi OTOS Te US. Air Force closed (op Air Force adviser on report. from two collegq dokogloch was roung boys at $30. Tie EL | seen in the northwest.
it books today onthe cave 1705 10% MU 0% COT whi they ew | AVERT Apel 1818 Sei meat et
The director of Unit 4 of the Tuesday. He hopes to talk with Of two “visits” by unideati- (+0 FENNEL SMA UD closeup as it swept] We were close, costr than os mam frst at 8:30 travel | degrees above the. borison.
Amalgamated Flying Saucer others who saw the object. fied flying objects, It's ver- vs CED past their window. Torr wart © bo age sald 2 oo a Lowy People clustered on street
Flute of America ia not com. Mr. Reyoolds, a construction) dict: swamp gas Investigation. by telling a To htings,| 8 deputy sherif who chased speed almost directly south. | SOIR (0 point at and dis-
foreman, is ® years od. He news conference it ap- or Sightings.) on unidentified flying object Them it swooped back up | CU Ube object. Opinions on
vinced that the object sighted in 20°20, 8 18 Ro OO NS But some of the people , meanwhile, were reported what people Saw varied.
Bho skies over Purt Dickinaon of ving saveers and oto aac] Who witnessed what they POATed very likely: [Oot NOU (RFI fom Oto into Pennsylvania. norhward and never moved | 5 PRS 5 mate, of
Tostay sgh was the 1 ARC eri rain o pace gn. (DUE wab 3 landing by 3 ome, £2 38 TePonile Dats” from moma) Hundreds of porns bn both or an | ow bam ones Sepia
for He kat, that ot al sight. | Kowine, o3 {7 wderressal oF Mast reports of police fics in St. Louiss| Sais, reported seeing the Mr. Dare mid ft vas s | mid Tem ;
lowing objects this week at rillant and shiny" abject nyiing mis is pow
“I kay enough, shout sto: og ee mysteioas, an ok] of | $ace Caf, were hot com: Howio€ ODI (hls wok trom’ 3 (uch Giver on af oorilant and shiny” cect mast of od und bn ls | eve ani
roy Bard EP RS Sh | TL hn Th Mk nd Mckigaa “Bhems ben] cy Muly make. Bee oe | Te Ea eat ws
‘behave manner,” about strange ts | perts were right. a way; from sheriff's depu-; = pound.” and weave an or
Gerald M. Reynolds of 69 Sie sac over Binghamton. ps Wiliam Van Horn, Hil ties in Toledo, Ohio: from a OL Mamlos, about eight miles "00 piprss 5. sem | Boman ay he 82, 0
St. said last night. One tamed out lo be the | And even while the two dale civil defense director, farmer in Upper Sanduskyl| horin,ol Ravenna, sad he took | MC sipruny Drive, | "Th sighting followed a sis:
Mr. Reymlde sud bo talked planet Jur. 10d he other most apectacular Michigan said he was “dissatisfied” Ohio: from a housewife afl mi. toocy yard tot tora form said he mw it around 9 pm. | ilar experience Sunday might
with persons who witnessed & came from a house or a [sightings now wore the tag with the explanation be McComb Miss. pens ront yar the air force Lg it was siting low in the | by about 100 residents of Ket:
fangs. object flashing mui. car oa Ely Park MI" be |of an “offical explanation” cause Hynek s investigation man at Tomah, Wie: and 4] ‘On, hn 0% 00s I. cnern sky” By 10 pm. the | Ue Point who watebed an ob
colored fights about $:3 pa laughed. UFO sightings coninuod of te sighing was. “an man at Bangr, Maine, wha. Lochect Sud It boked Uk ole wut Mgr 2 irchr | Jct gow Tod. oe, Grudn and
bog fore oR RNC 00 iw tae” saucers othe th In satiosary | more ta tw
Poa oven ang mir, biel” and because Hynek took a potsht at hi oblee prper gota: 1
ake ER DE a
*THE DENVER POST Friday, April 8, 1966
POLICE CHIEF "CONVINCED THEY SAW SOMETHING SIME DENVER POSY Pride Rpll.IN6 3
Six Teens Tell of 'Chase’ by Buzzing, Lighted UFOs
By ROBERT KISTLER The group was sitting around a fire they'd built inside man, who might've been wearing a raincoat,” dart through clear beneath the clouds where the lights were.” As the third
Deaver Post Stall Writer when they heard “what sounded like a man walking on top Ee emis [ws Gu Voloy Jia fis wwe. Thy ld Tern Td tee Le TL
ig ported Thursday of he shar an easly be reached a foot from A otic. ween
my er ieee Be Br RR Lr Lm Shoe pled Toe roo docied oo "I kad Jk a pack obthll te Doe lights on cach
- AAT ny cor of Mr. and As they were walking back to the car, Otis turned and end — with &n orange on op, like a bubble. The red light
Secs In Denil Park south of Deer Dg Co, a 10 Fula Bt, hod on kp fo shir saw a roa bh (acy behind th, Bl ove the clier ‘wh af th boon. 1 d'or up nd own, bt 0 cut
Bl iis ivy wise wr 40d shined o fashigh olo th sarounding area. They and it bt up the whole aes.’ ee
ce Chil John C_ Macive of Sow sotring Co ‘ ‘Car Didn't Work Right"
explained, apparently “hovering” red, bive and white lights wn LE made Buzzing ‘All Around ‘Car Didn'’ ork Rig
ecinpaied by a wis of pulsating boing nds WHC pi rough he. Sader back to he rood 1 The amis busing began again. No direcion, “st The youngsters pled In he car — a 194 Ford — and
began about 9:30 p.m. thought someone was messing around my car,” Scrivner all around — never heard anything like it in my life” started out of the park. 5 z
The, teen-agers, all 17, who described what they saw hort Scrivmer said. Shortly afierward as the group neared the ‘You'll all think we're nuts,” Scrivner said later, “bat
Dont, we, Soreoad by Mackver 86 being WAN, "sen ov prt to fhe ci,” ol, ee ee as iy car Gn work rie | cde 5p shot 3 rie
‘cold scber and 8 little shaken by what they saw. areal weird buzzing noise. It seemed to be all around us. “Two blue lights hovering low in the sky, about three. i Fd someone turned
The group appeared at Maclvor's office shortly before Ja they reached te ca, the youths sew “two red Abts quarers of & 2s ty. The Nga wre reid INS SIE Thon Rt peut ach op sie whiny
pm —sbout a foot each in diameter—sbout two went trom brig — white — pt Loar]
“I was real skeptical a frst” Macivor said “But each ground and parallel to each other.” There was a white ight to rise wp and down between the blocs and “Ut up the  Pothing but static ‘while they left the immediate area of the
“of the kids called their parents—who knew they'd been pic- in the center of the reds. area” CPP al LR
nicking—to tell them where they were. The lights, about 20 feet apart, appeared to be in a field No outline —other than the lights—was visible. a i As - Fog fod pi ot pad yen]
“I don't know what they saw,” he said, “bot I'm cen on the far side of the road “about 25 yards" from the ee ates af un foe abouk 3 Dall bout, The he whale road following the car."
vind they saw something | or "To, iki igh Bn tw pred cars oad whi gh “ol gd ox” fo bot 4 hl bor, The Uh whole rod Illi” CL
Alan Scrivner, son of Mr. and Mrs. Russell Scrivner of something,” crouched in the ditch and waited. lights appeared in back of the shelter — in oppusi? PO ari oily ug! edly bee te 3
108 Jackson SL, & por a East High Scho, fave the About three minutes ler, they again approached the recto from the is lights see n the eld 6 Facies a snr o Ba,
following account. car. They saw and beard nothing. They returned to the Twenty minutes after the blues appeared, another set— al BA ll Rel hm Tl
Scrivner and five friends drove to Daniels Park, 10-12 shelter. these, blues with a bright red in the center — appeared “off Paphos do py eiegy Myron 48 bor sar
mes sobs of Lien, shot 630 pm: The parked he Th four In the shelee sad hat, while the two bad io ih let of the olbrs and bout & block away.” These 1p fo the buck :
Eid walked shat chy bck Gown 4 mal Bc born foe, they'd head Le tame “oosep Ie” wknd cn Dover arte rou. To bung conte. weed”
up again to a stove shelter built in the side of a hill the roof again. Two of the girls sad they'd also seen a “tall The night was overcast with no stars visi | repped mma co miss)
i ontreal Gazette, 4-30-667 I m———————————en Called Sheriff's Office
——— ES » oT 5 BS The youths stopped at a service station and called the
w_| Super-Space World a Sn ON
a pe ; eputy Gets Too =~ = ™ Sr
ince r ought oviets Macivor said “one of the impressive things about thelr
—_ [ iF 4 story" was all six dnt claim fo have seem the exact same
ing ot the same time
Area UFO Buffs Report || soo — ee) con wa we ne iClOS@ 10 “S@UCEr’  spiimme ©
f | Wester sepicim: See fa sdemices Vadim KGlRko, AvENh, Oho AP) — “We chert said looked tke og 78 FRE cfc at Lowry Ai Force Buse sid
Skies Clear Of SAUCErs | [min tur: wun Simm] fea ves is csoee fy SAVED, Oto (AF) — “We Buchet 11d 1 looked Ukt cry Friday bed recuived + cal apparently from te Ara
[Cee in space 3 1a vin to] The Rusiana say ig imeloere close Closer than Lover two hoe Courty shri. reporting the sightings
Recent sightings in other sec-{south of Spokane at Christmas| make contact with earth eartimen started investigating ¥2"% 1 be sean; i a Sher. | Others In the group were Michael Simington, son of Mr.
tions of the country have stimu. time, but 50 subsequent sightOES || Because of Moscow's refusal] Whether there may be sisterfy sherl Sie ig Ee a @0d Mrs. James E. Simington, 773 Jackso nt, a junior at
lated interest in umideatified fly-{have been reported by the UFO||,; Jiundon hope, a new contro(civilizations in space. Three dentified flying object from if Dale Spaur "a M* East; Patty Retherford, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Neal Reth-
ing objects lo te Spokane area buts since that time in. (hs | ys MOPS ls or months a0 a group of Soviet Oho lato Peameylvasia. partner, W. Lo Nett, “were Cio," furison SL a junk at Mapleton High Schoo,
5 on has bem reported see res [Petits exronomers gested  wore| Mundrads of parsons 1n both Chose fo tha object a separae So: 7} SE Re, a ad
inthis locality since Decmeber. Blue Streak Seen Nesters experts scoffed a|wide research program. sates reported seine the cars and chased It 86 miles for ng 'av®, Harley, daughter of Mr. High q
Tort oa, fevered ida by| She sad the oblect was sol cur ago when s young Russian] Last Ape, Kardasher, 34“riliant ad shiny cblect in hour and 5 bal, from sear 18 Jer Mt Mishaben! Hoh Schl
A Lies » streak of blue, which Nikolai Kardashev, (tuned his sensitive radio-tele- early Sunday morning. Ravenna to Conway, Pa., near Ta0 ar UPD sifting’ Wrico Taycrtod 1 fe sta, she
director of the Spokane unit of flushed straight across the sky||Afironomer. Nikolai Kardasher, tuned his sensitive radio ele early Sunday 7: Phos B87 4: Delta and the other in Denver.
2 farms Ting Sancer in ie vicaky of Browee's Mom LL, space and speculated edie Ely itl Maen, sh i mas © Spar skid bo clocked tt | Dols Pile Cel D. C. Morgan, patrolman Earnest
Geo meres in he vicinity of Browne's Moth || Le space and speculated race 30.47 Sripally doo Maseen a Lo =
Mrs. Campbell said ere ia|Campbell sad it could not have (hey might have come from ajcovered by the Mount Whar orth of Ravenna, seid be took speeds w to 103 milesper hour, Markley and reporter Din Prather of the Delta Independent
going to be & regional convention|been a falling meteor or similar | ma made radio source alomar 4 vy i picture of the object from his From the ground Spaur said ft "2! object flowing. grees in col sod
EE i ror he So oo, twas] | A. popular scence magasie dens: Co irons ard. at he Ale Force Jookad Hue he ped of « aa, PET BIL” The men served I for last two hours
Fee abt eee |r rather nevi tn 7oled ight nding Sorel] Tht. sist snd the ignatofrot rd bt the Al Force looked lke (he head of fash 147 MCR The em, Sienet be
lactis By + Sento wthorty en) The Amalgamated Fiyng Seu. scents to fd out what heylhe pleked wp whey Leofieine LE 2 bo rues % UH ob In Denver, Terry Datz, 19, a University of Denver sto-
vg St Fog a 5 Sg wer Serpe Hp a : F deat, said he and Dennis Sullivan of Mt. Vernon, N. Y.
scheduled by the local unit|profit organization conducting | Friday, “Technik Molodeshi”| earthbound radio emissions. |W [00 SUF Spaur said the lines ofthe ob- dent, % 3 2
bre Ted Fevearch sna. imvetgation mi | (Young Techniques) reported “There ave 3 umber ofl IAL Jock were very distint, “Soma- Sighied sbout seven UFOs which appeared “garbage can Id
Mrs. Campbell 3aid she was|the subject of ying saucers, io | that no coe Is prepared to rule| elements which do aot contra ody had control over it,” be SiZe
among several Spokane perbons terplanetary travel and commu. || oat the possibility |dict the theory that there i) ss said, “Tt wasn't just floating The students said the objects disappeared into the clouds
who saw such a flying objectimcation and related subjects || “I agree completely that it is another civilization.” he said. LESSENS Sud A around. It can maneuver.” after about 10 minutes.

=== Page 11 ===
AFSCA CONVENTION SPEAKERS
1. WAYNE S. AHO; The New Age Foundation, Inc.; 11. JOHANNES "HANNO'' MAYBERRY;
8 Smith St.; Seattle, Wash. 98109. Unified Research Center, Inc.;
Publish: "The Aquarian Dawn' (Donation basis). P.O. Box 764; Selma, Oregon 97538.
2. CARL A. ANDERSON; 12. HOWARD MENGER;
2522 E, Pearson Ave.; Fullerton, Calif, 202 Schumann Drive; Sebastian, Florida 32958.
3. ORFEO ANGELUCCI; 13. LAURA MUNDO; The Interplanetary Center;
4160 Verdugo Road; Los Angeles, Calif. 90065. 27359 Cranford Lane; Dearborn Heights, Mich.
4. MICHAEL "X'" BARTON; Futura Press; 48127. Publish: "The Interplanetary News'' (Free).
5949 Gregory Ave.; Hollywood, Calif. 90038. 14. MEL NOEL;
Phone: 464-0441. 2760 Hollyridge Drive; Hollywood, Calif. 90028.
5. WESLEY BATEMAN; Mental Investigations of New 15. SIDNEY PADRICK;
Dimensions (M.I.N.D.); 4916 Franklin Ave.; 196 Hidden Valley Road; Watsonville, Calif.
Hollywood, Calif. 90027. Phone: 661-1731. 16. CHIEF FRANK B. STANDING HORSE;
Publish: "Prism'' (12 issues-$3.00). AFSCA Unit #9; Rt. 2, Box 194, (27401 Hwy. 74);
6. MARIANNE FRANCIS; Solar Light Center; Perris, Calif. 92370. Phone: 657-2873.
Rt. 2, Box 572-C; Central Point, Oregon 97501. 17. DR. FRANK E. STRANGES;
Publish: "Starcraft (4 issues-$2.00). International Evangelism Crusades, Inc.;
7. DR. DANIEL W. FRY; Understanding, Inc.; P.O. Box 252; Venice, Calif. 90293.
P.O. Box 105; Merlin, Oregon 97532. 18. MOLLIE THOMPSON;
Publish: ''"Understanding' (12 issues-$2.50). Linton, Astley Bank, Darwen, Lancs., England.
8. CALVIN C. GIRVIN; 19. HOPE TROXELL; School of Thought;
6711 Yucca St.; Hollywood, Calif. 90028. P.O. Box 458; Independence, Calif. 93526.
9. GABRIEL GREEN; Amalgamated Flying Saucer 20. GEORGE W. VAN TASSEL;
Clubs of America, Inc.; 2004 N. Hoover St.; Ministry of Universal Wisdom, Inc.;
Los Angeles, Calif. 90027. Phone: 662-4404. P.O. Box 458; Yucca Valley, Calif. 92284.
Publish: "Flying Saucers International’ Publish: '"Proceedings' (Donation basis).
(6 issues-$3.00). 21. HAL WILCOX;
10. DR. GEORGE KING; The Aetherius Society; Institute of Parapsychology;
6202 Afton Place; Hollywood, Calif. 90028. 871 Gower St.; Hollywood, Calif. 90038.
Publish: "The Aetherius Society Newsletter" Phone: 469-5438.
(Donation basis). Phone: 465-9652.
SPACE AGE SONGS by Mollie Thompson
THE COCKEYED BALLAD
TIT STE me ee fee oe SPACE-TALK
There's a cockeyed feeling in the world today
That power politics is here to stay. The powers that be will tell us we're alone.
But China, Russia and the U.S. A. They'll tell us that in space we are unique;
Boy—don't let them fool you! On this little desert island we call Earth
Take a look at this world of ours, The human race is just a kind of freak.
Just one mud ball in the sea of stars. When we send our envoys into space
Other planets have no color-bars, There'll be a smile upon this planet's face,
'Cause they've got perspective. 'Cause brother, right out there—I'm telling you,
Yanks and Ruskies put men into space, There's another human race; it's very true!
But it's all a mad politician's race, They're a very, very peaceful crowd,
One -up-manship in this Year of Grace. For they just never go to war.
It makes you giggle. And they cannot interfere,
The population stands and stares, This is by Universal Law.
While men in capsules explore upstairs. The spaceman's message to us all
Why we can't even manage our own affairs! Is based on how to banish fear,
Some cheek—colonization! And if we only understand,
Besides, they've got people on Venus and Mars. We will find it heaven here.
They got lads and lasses and ma's and pa's. While we must rely on war,
And they've got better transport than four-wheel cars. We never will be happy here.
Have you ever seen 'em? While this world's economy
Those Flying Saucers whisking through our skies Is based on hardship, strife and fear.
Must take some power to make them rise. How do they live without a war
But government departments just hide their eyes, In their lands of milk and honey?
And call them meteors! They don't need economy,
With all the lies that they print and shout, Because they don't use any money!
The general public's got its work cut out— They cannot give us any ships,
Figuring what it's all about. So we must try and build our own.
But just you keep on trying. But they are waiting right out there,
I suppose you know why I'm telling you this, Oh, my friends, we're not alone!
So you won't shriek or shake your fist How do they go at such great speed,
When you discover Martians do exist! And vanish then without prediction?
They're real nice fellows. Because they use free energy,
I know, 'cause I met one a week ago! And there isn't'any friction.
His ship came down for an hour or so. Brother have you seen their ships ?
He talked to me, but then he had to go. Sisters have you seen them glow,
Real interested I was! As they dance and hover in the sky,
Got brothers on Venus and Saturn, it seems — And make our fastest jets look slow?
Fly their ships on magnetic beams.
They wear one piece suits —you can't see any seams;
But apart from that—they're just like us! 5

=== Page 12 ===
em
= SN uf
7 Rion I NE
Fo pill
= 3 Rae =p BE
Tar SRN CR ashy Fe PETES Lh
SBS CURIE A eo Uh
REX LOE ASA
i Gel aaa Bi 1
i ee) SE ats ERC
rT A ——, ' ; 2 er. Ln
Aas Pi 7 a s. P45 ang File RF oi { ge
y a ¢ ia { —— Wi J i 5 i, E
iy J FE ES
r Beh at LEA i ;
EE
: QAsSTOSARIE =. |
4 . Cm FT Nea ! |
vw rE
a T= EF CE ;
Re 3 oe -~
Ba aor Ces Sot ®t ip
eg
SNR mr Lk
oa
Mi pins -
RAS .
BALE
wT ER
BT
Sel $0
Eg: No
FE
FRE Re
EE le
RRR AN Fay | Toa 2
a Ra I
Ben 4 Jos, oN "tl PEI
ll ts 5 Fh ECE 70 9-5 10
: REI ER TRE Adal oe
£5 Baz o, NR
Una Be a A Cy
-
»
B Ls : &
wl EEE
ARMAS od Ty
fe EE SA Sop.
. AER a Gy
at
=
v N pe ’ < 2 oe <5 F -~
N .
ORE 1 v2 RET « $e
« < ) RET Sa BF ve, PT Tok
as 9 G |, a Rh OR a prt
NY Cm “a BERR V 2
NEW SAUCER PHOTOS: These remarkable photos of Flying Saucers were taken by Dr. Daniel W. Fry,
President of Understanding, Inc., of P.O. Box 76, Merlin, Oregon 97532. Your editor enlarged them
from the original 16mm color movie film. Spots on the photos are due to the extreme enlargement of
scratches and dust spots on the film. Of special interest is the fact that the same type of craft was
photographed near Merlin, Oregon in a wooded section, and again near Joshua Tree, Calif. on the desert.

=== Page 13 ===
N o_o Citizen-News |
‘S ’ Visits Wichita? Object In | Thunder, A 5
- 5
Would Y ou Believe— aucer 1sits icnitas iSky Near |
. Jp
0 rit ol mi 0 At oh rowing win Ang lo in $0 y t Pl t
ny AN KENTING RR RT AT SE Re Tp ee == 2 i Bloom’dal |Flanet Fluto
mt Wren vb a ee nA ro Sy Spat i |
el Soe ow sn Sl Sd CONTACTED i QTL 2 A Re Ee ST EE en of; le rs Seen
es goaded om prolly Dass Sam Te lade and de poe dupe reg ry Fl were mtd vin ce Latest ‘Flying auc Is
he road song “Tyg sor” 4, aw) ame Toad TONE KR, JONNY 1 bi mate cbr i 5 vents so a mt fn NP
nd ert eg Be py en = Ts supoxinvasian] Wit
yrs i ty Ply ts PE RE vic econ | 2 Perr gesalll Lo :
moring be saw ive “lig sumces” _Ivscaly, Mov Thomas vad ae pre Saturday, March 26, 1966. [Bes vl Bey | By AUSTIN CONOVER 3
oa Te to som af sky, Saucers” and poly heard he bums Be —— a valitiied Gog SRS | SUNSET STRIP-The Iviation to the Jo a
Ln Cl Coe Tom, 6 "0 ot sa te ort [RS 3 J $ (B08 BERS 5, ang, Seven pos who hav bmn contacted by msn
RE RR first be thought 4 big desl truck was 2 . ge of james Melvin, also 17, a gers from outer space will be available
vo SH ] RL es 03 ors ert, er rom out pect will bn valable Wedd tor
Lyre fe bi — pI ; 1 p BT mi gta ead {World Harmony, Inc. turned out 0 be
id ee pais to my mrs engine metered OR ee, A he PAE AME feta of Wo ; od ou 1 bl
od fh ead hs ey mo, Jo 24 be Sd bow sho ef) p) REG de, SHER ay 3 [5 Plate ef endear of We Prin, pride who 1d sh
oN ma—iike a fying until afer he tok 8 elghbor abot Nix of SE SRP pa ES ie 4 E coe bait miles vin. (has not only sighted flying saucers but also cor
Se  So— time vision. Michigan report a “al? BASE pdale, Dickerson told Melvin, aied with the “humans” io
a we wes bret JET Te ¥ RA or fn ee [io and ve
heard Ton 1 kod ek wd 338 Sedo = = gr Abney AS = : eh € das is
- h » ~ rs sald they red She made It cloas
NT TE peel 01 a) me Bs As § [homer ae Par Sn
hr Loma 0 XL oat er § Dow. Seat (Pf <td |B St Same Es a i a]
poise TR EN Re yy aL CAE Sars BE a Ser
las Sere pple ad rod ad oases nh ocala \ Lig 7 § 4 HE Jonen eidumated
a i BE Wt sae vr JN A FLEE — Siig HORE w Sing Ware
EN Sow THEN ft we Wh, Sg, 1, Co on . A fh Te rd ara Re ve
ma pe Bon em bt ALT LCL | Aq : HQ ph ET ny Sod More
Tit by my window bad just fed my pet rai. Bt had ii "oe Ja x ‘ 3 There were. three lights ea the : rom the other ive sighters.
J dee ook lke t had any wiodows Lic, "eo back foo bc, ne 1 dnt fo rN ry Vee a wt Ve kw that dey came. to
in Kd go pe £7 ida AEE id ra vr a Sea as
oe pr sm be re aa, red Sn wh see [AN RR eS - i Te hs =X
was ub dg > a mot vary wilh each repeated telling sal on, 5.3 Bey Le dens fISgor oot ca on hn Lik he sar dat pled oe
ET RS THis AsewvTED de vad d : Ran 1 Lp SER TET
fd Sch Go ale a ot ny HE Mrs. Thomas and Johnny examined “flying saucer damage aed fe shot wo mime am ogo ude miki
Sn Ta he Je i sere Sng Ly bani nt seats Apron hdnd gion, [FR hE le
* Ee — “TT THE MONTREAL STAR. MONDAY, APRIL 4, 1966 Fh | RL. prove have communicated
ni Silene ssp, | — EL Em
o . ted H Boy Is Bu Cina News| [Shs Seiiogy 208
UFO Sighting Reporte ere A =F 5 THOSE SPACE PEOPLEI its Neve ood imme
. [THOSE SPACE PEOPLE | [mm
B 4 Flyi ng Ship Flyin Saucers, ue or
i | ton hat the saucer pao
Not a Star - - Not an Aircraft, Says | ec ti neal | y g T] e's rae
: J wnTon, on. TT £4 1yrcid Hunton : Erma
fiace S SmAR mil of Monk Bend. | anu met 4 seni | Quakes Linked] EEE EE
ya al | aro]
Louis 5. Smiths, who live, culars rane unig landed ia | IR Foal STN ights need oot be expressed) | "6
oe 5 oe a | speed bo ag Bela“ ening the. Hambton K DELTRORD Taare 1. a a ry I etywood tis
= roe ln, ° Jravien Ema WOLLYWOOD = Tare ET i
ac me = Fr? muy | dotrwoon a OT Le
Co ng Ror, an ha Emam a | si poi si | [fn coin emcee lo De fw ir] | on Pre rere sng
a ed Th lc tn LTR i b arts od Shiny poche” Smeics Wn |oyie wees et
yd Comaie Arla Fes. wen : ee oir or | [Ns we reir” |
Fregrom Ara 3 LC i” mond lo the home afer the : ~— Guiril Gress. who suid ba
[Po St CSE FS rie ces acon sare in os he en Ss) | ft mre
eich [EEE ee | Sd vse Si ER AL ee re i ten recs | ER EAR ee epi OR XT
neha SL Sha meme me TE Ee ee ‘ Frnt ve Yh lt te es oy | |r, rr ret
To Tm TT wha ou walking the bad ‘evens os os] Soke LS? comer Uresmillg wieder Fr] in ee J
oh i i pe ad me Nah od Cenk = - 4 he ran bedind IND, reported: #Ou researchipice in swamp. lands than oficial dabemkers.” be
rt gs | ny es > hres id be rn bend = Et RC ge
Bis Sa mai | Me Sh agreed am th brik] ek. as aligns. rw ovehosd Temes Tod vy en frig swucer ghtings ar sce crata bev. be tr] 1s net Th de
rn Trae mo 2°, LE UF EAL cy [A et 1 ihe nd rpms ou 1s pg ey | ce
fags Then realized It was mov: | he was ummure whether the cen peared fo be moving In + siralght were walching was much larger, He described the objects as underground muciear devices barriers of pwaimp microbes Fortunately, the younger
a Tense wr ey od Bere 0 Ry AE TR MR | dered pe is Se fr Se Bae pepe] | Tur, be Younger
[mt ran to the douse snd rh chs” wih he nd he” cot Sn | “Te of rene. They vere | afr iar va Are er pele id wc fd re (£510 fot
alld bl parade amd Ma str, vere Games — “whatever ey mew and than I woutd | not alarmed, only inter a ees HE "he Bl fet oe ot man wil ree hom of] | Seb fag asco. The re
Bo TRE BR yn i Em SR Ee ne | ESnENE [Pet po BT SLR po RL
They 38 ran eutside and al re. seed lo rdise irom In Pi bo thn coke ond | prs Io indica hat any of ote npr aa [4.5 Sepinming of March. 100, un age’ of tremendous talc [Faure Yuh lar
* sighting the strange object | 00 (he objec ak som fo Wit a Wile which ok | Seighbars shared the saperionce. re hor wid De ebjects 3 0 boshete ep Ls a obond
Ne He was reluctant to guess how fo ses its general Both Mr. and Mrs Smith sald made a buzzing sound and “li CHARLES COZENS a ar -
hem UU CD Fgh god EE JEN, oy A TY Re pa nt cpio oe a eae | Ba Po
Fa iy good view fH. Hi Plt rng uring he war | “A fe Sea ur 1 was | oe meat ST ol 1 eb emt cot bi bbe | rr Cte a ter,
fr EAT § Be ere TT me | Teh SEE GE TAME TTT MS | de Ores Bec. xc
rough fhe” isso: Beery | ema dances bu 1 tt J Sees, AVERY more = hey don't know what 1b Frei Omen 14 reported seeing twe| (Tuer Chie)  SccuTed i cas the tying vaacer “rebar
op To yg ee] Fyre RE mach bigger than sor. | was, but they know they saw When be touched tthe ante chiecls ing low ovr the cy: [ct Cota: Forme Japan; . ih ower smi oat she
Fe a a thn aa mal slrerafi” Mr. Smith sald. | something very strange in the aa 8 fash “UF decir | Bers, engineer wd (Si Arca, Yogolare and . Sghied in Georgia. Liban Wi
Tt 1, Tah 2 Me | ie sed th ss hth "Sc my ee 1omcinot ro Erin To Be mriR ES Ee ae RI Tad
on rv io" hae he ht Wht ve cn id | Ee I= es 7 i BA
> Er A re Tf ey IE BR [cove |
9. Pobre ok 20 V8 ( Rel = Charts, SEE . ; =:
EP il —— Tr} §|  aavuary 1s
‘Mysterious UFO! | BRILLIANTLY LIGHTED jp SEE Fas em LY | umse
BRILLIANTLY LIGHTED 3 A re | . ee
| a ‘Th Th g’ Se B n: Bateman, who believes the eC isible Age
In ts Ch Ary pe |
Escorts Burns Plane Police Follow e TItons | p= we Lights in'Sky
4-18-66 San Diego Union . references to sightings following | The “flying saucer” which at
P| a ier a if aa : res Shen of eas
* kK mas rw con 85 Miles Speculating Anew | mecca pad
i £00 To es aucer TR Eres So
Meteorite ype fort Hong Kong, i-11-66| London, Apr. 10. ihlang. shjece were som 5] © | fm sin oe
os ol Bee. ee as FREEDOM. Pa. (UPI) — | about 15 stories tn he “The Thing” — or “Things” — returned to Britain | |i ty just], WESLEY I BATEMAN mmm
eae a Tw rial Mghied den: | Reds be Son 4 = rT Be bc rm, on, te] "Corin | |TRE  peren
Flares Over Ro tas mms ued" tying’ acs “were | shaped seme Be 5 A 2 con, sheet "Ring "ciety, oe 1 = ra S 5 |e hem
JA0-0R8 SAS SR sighted here and 390 miles | dog Which officials have failed so d by a wave of sightings of fying [Scclen, Ave. roerted er
oe on 38 En fx ———— Sunday newspaper bubund Tom. vid on paper: | (2,800 SAVES 70g econd | TH di aE ean:
Northeast "re Li pe ee Ree vrs News o The Weck rei | SR Fe “HA aR | (cs he cd 3-22.66 | [Rea ers ot ot
ERT A be Te || PE | ETRE | ner Yl Eee SR | mE en CR | EO Sey tC | [Fir ponte kane
he wept nero he Ea { shut # ie over enka lo PR a CLT SE al re | YEA ot OS | yer et | oie rt tn o nt
Coy eG wun || tn Cr | eh Sins He ra Sn | ey expan “Frye sar] Zi fod to bo hemwtg whos i
a TA rE | Sa REE | BREE cosmo | FET EL | In Michigan | (Soi
wh, cin a mani 75 LAL miele ee SON | 2 oc
So is ering ey (=, 8 OW vb we | TS VL ve ng | [BESET | of BR eT | fod tbe mr | enue, mun arn, bh a
prod oper sp. Soong 4 =F" § =) Sets | Poriage County. Ohio, De- | 1y W. L. Nell were rig Key ” | photographers—cincited with | [oot surbenmn aCe eo A sme col dtm trscr | ay ge nw. won|
ray to ying mates [added “KR siayed with us for a puty Sherifl Dale’ Spaur, an | om ypc w, : 8a ing obec to an | [Changs 18 he truemcy borer (L752 S01 James Sven] | ah eng, Sobbing and
hema be lr oh | GE Tr pe dg | OMBCTIOATS SET | ERR TOE | NT fede sa | | oe Wim
Fae ey Kr Io en ee | A | 1, O08 yt || Then STn | apy Bot] nla foe, eT [ri he
Arai ees ot Kemet 115i ln ine | Pind ee Ce ee yes | ued as nt | [oe forme obit sme, af [o he bor
ternational Airport sald W 4p [10 3 years of fying. I i ody rem 0 | ee ald eb i eh 270, moh at 8:00 test over Can | vflage of Warminster over the | oplectm - ns of cars ringed the
Te ra | aes evoried the ight 0 10100 miles an hour. gyre dle oF Bock Tn Siaftordshire Cou7 13 | past10 ‘maaths has been sees | | “Trois trequesey bed | if To RE fC fork ccoments bev
r ? to north. Iti, Nathan Sharon of 1 de ee 34 days ago when she spotted what | Lewin. ed man's mental do dam van m4, ing to see ject,” first
moving trom set Capt. Nathan BRIGHT LIGHT aed to stop and wait. other plane, | “Authorities no longer le mm | |sdale County civil detense| | over reservoir and.
was believed to have laded 19] Forde Highway Pairel. Sharon, 1 bad sever so smyth | "Boe MT ae a al Laer a | alivulis, 2 Jor bak | fons SG Sm {atae "Coty fom, Sa | 30nd oer Be vac ad
Lire nant sd ved te foc avd went bck] | th bright to in sy le | re i | LESS de whioped out her | 207 SHhatcn BF ie Wor | fo i te, rome, oer fel i AH (I tr Com en
TE J, overs ot wd who | SU RIT eR by Fy spared Sac ol foe ey oh. Mesias ie fd ARS pee
a I I Cr, hw, i rot comer ws | pore doesioned by wa “Ale oeosads round. our tier,” Nor | of Warmiasors “Thing PUL | [wou dumbiound you | pou Bin xpleaton, meas
a a oro obec we | Foe 7 en ! = SN "SE
er Eri ee [Sh SR AA | : SH TR Fy ayer
eR TR To mS | ws rote ein SA ac fo
Ft Lg gd mL a ye ino Caster Poivbes = i [amt 5 har He rbd | (vis riod vse rd] an ponte hiner o
Thee td dood kd ut be window of be] | “opt | Arta Da [oe “ane | nd eh wa
Seng tu ect sweeping. Mgh pane. 1nd Spoted whet op = pS ¢ TS CI pe 66]
rough the a aa a pd so Mendy, Mr. 20,1966 Los hneles Bernd Ean ( J) - [Canpages 2 the proton: ss oer viroge =427) IBALL OF FIRE
oa wa Sat [A 45 te 0 phere oe eS ak, eb - - AL Prorat frit” +" ir” tied
re i OC SAUCER BLAST? SIX | rT Nw 5 At Pierre fi LEWES IN HOLLYWOOD
ey 5 ae er wer aa” . 5 Sight UFO Jraest re rn o) IE SAUCER
GREET ELLA EY | TOWNS SEE MYSTERY | IW y Sig Seitreser zo
ken fo he Ferd J b tring smut BH BE aa a wa | STN i) mms ar, pre Realtor Spots | | mt Tie ot
Bou: Newb WF. ou 02 Pre Te yg wl, | NEWTON. XC. March 3 UPD. glowing oe ob SRY ie med ven (Goo Like 5.2266 | et bn Fes |
Tod ha 3s mate] nt 50 fo ad a ht 3 i 5S a. iy 28 nan bout ond | pas Re Trac ing Object | | 2i"bus ses ses |
reskin wp od veri oes un be. Everyone shar — he town 1 pantie Casn = chy about mideaght Thursdy d gr pi 4g
Seiki 5p snd bring [Be pare oes Be Sh io oe explosion 1 up th town like + gigas cord | ; 2 A KL Bd ER T=
Dr Aen CHAPMAN, sols te LT Type p— BE EERE hE AmnbEE (EESS
amir ee TA ld el ct a as Se : -— EE bre cnt] SS SMR |
Toma a oe 7. aed Pat Gy | mat se Bere f eho po ots LL ENR, iS Shee] RATLI if rT ome
inches Ours, 1X. to ssajpwsred to tie tod Sn dmg. Rolt of fie with fire arcing off fhe edges He Sad & o 1 a a southerly rection Pood ada of Paine ER et ma
fh Sc vig be Lr us gh heli || So of te wh re tri otf a i a I ge rT
i i et Se Ee a smi Ue fos mt Rca, a | rer tie oto eed
Be (oot va | | Se wie set © 1 cous Ws JANN Samrat EURO (Ei
Sot t was|ment. Durieg the time the en 1. he sad “No SWATH Fas or HOE Hike that Nex 0 Se wie a move Groh 00 vc a BL a heh my on de Veer
Seog be flung cht wasioent Dirge ime Ge LAT 5 SRE : Ht 3 degrees, they sald, and = 3 ey dw i 0 ers Mos. Roth =
ey lpn fg A i] -~ he was al Dhivel ar when pp. 5 pnt blinked out of two saucers—one ought an airplane was
Sn ne ELE | Sere en mS imma Tr | |e ure |
8s MR TIER TR | SLL Raa 3 ey emarmlal ARB aE,| (malede dS
borizmatal plane Br Sg oe aay co I Spal oicers wt Vasaese were filing the tank of | —— moved at tremendous speed and | lject weal out of ght raving] | “very righ 20d sald Bt =|
pie AL ne at car he hey Se th Se ey oF , eR EW Et
‘about five to 10 sect trader Sock - ode. They saw no fragments fal ad we 't Live rie Atmosphere’ her vantage point came on agal bammscacer nani ral VU
Oe TT = Fo EERTE DEE

=== Page 14 ===
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL | | The spokesman quickly adds: “We have nei-| immu ussss: sss sos ss som » : T
PIRI og Sg ther received nor discoverad any evidence thai| London, Ontario Free Press 3-26-66 Fong Kong Ghia May
———————————— | proves the existence of intraspace mobility or :
TN oes Fora Fo dF oreo || | extraterrestrial lie and we continue to extend | h E Yi ng
{| New ‘Fireball’ Raises || [ah open invitation to anyone who feels he pos: atc
| | sesses any evidence of such vehicles operating
} 3 af atmosphere.” And he states: “No UFO |
An Old Question: Do || sm Somme dnd be sabato Tol mie fis . : rs
Evin Sonar tCpoo || |S ai SLATS Disc-Like Object Hovers, Rises sauce
yr cers LLXist! security.” . &
Ee, 2 The Air xorce's approach awsturbs some| For Two Hours East of Kettle Point m stery
H caitoctinn, ries Toi vo tin || [Es A Tm ti snk] oy  wrscmmsrzesr UPD hig ws. rtrd yster
™ Wy pharny der our noses of which we know nothing,” says| ¥ree Press Sarnia Bureau saturday night as far north 2-3-
{ From the Stars, Says ‘Yes’; | | |1. 3. Levitt, director of Fels Planetarium at the| SARNIA — A revolving ob- as the ip of the “Thumb” in EOPLE in North Queens-
{4 Scientists Assail Air Force [| |Frankin Institute in eros ov lan adds: | ject, sighted In the sky east Lake Huron. P land are mystified A
! “The Alr Force is trying to explain something | of Kettle Point last night, was : SRR te reports
_ that isn't susceptible to explanation.” watched for more than two , O44 lights were reported in three paso
{ By Busaor Caxtao | |, Robert Risser, director of the Oklahoma Scl- | hours by about 100 persons. u& ®i OTC FEVERS BOC lying
| &tag Reporter of TE WiLL STREET JouRNAL ence and Art Foundation planetarium at OKla Lawrence Breasette, who op area. Others were reported The first report came from a
|  They'ze back. The latest was sighted a few | |homa City, believes “the Air Force must have| grates a store on the Kettle westward in the Lansing area I-qoenoid banana grower, Mx
nights ago by residents and pllots in the north | | Had ts starfinder upside down durleg AUE:| Point Indian Reserve, sald 8 "'D.) Alien Bynek of Nort. | 0; Lele, who while delving a
ern tier of states and Canada. They described | |Ust,”” when several reports of flying saucers| motorist brought the object-to western University, scientific tractor. Euongk a es
it 8 an orange fireball. The Air Force at first | Were ascribed by the Air Force o sightings of | big attention about 8 pm. He emers Ure un’ i "aye | Property on his way to his own
called it an unidentified fying object, but now | | stars. *The constellations of Taurus and Orion | said he looked at it through Somsaltent fo, the U.S. Air | farm, heard a loud hissing no
thinks it was a meteor. Some other people( | Weren't visible at the time the Ar Force said | pinoculars and could sce red, Foie said pheromens seen
called it a flying satcer. the sightings were made. I think they made an | biue, green and white lights 5. OPCS nC BHldale SONS Suddenly about 25 yards
Several people say they saw the fireball land | | error.” flashing from the disc-shaped 6! ¥ 2 ahead of him, a blue-grey saucer
y they were the result of swamp | SnetC ® NA bout 25 fi across,
Thursday night. An 11-year-old boy in Lorain, The whole problem, says J. Allen Hyntek,| object. tel a
| Ohio, says he watched it drop into the woods | | chairman of the department of astronomy at| Mr. Bressette said it re-- Sgro Dg EkEY about 60ft and travelling at a
[near his home. A woman in Elyria, Ohio, 10| | Northwestern University and a consultant to| mained motionless for about | Sheriff Douglas Harvey of | about S0% #nd CRVQlE Bt 2
| Ed away, claims she saw it plunge into a| |the Air Force, is that the matter should be| an hour flashing lights, then Poet Be Mr Em wouth-westerly direction.
vacant lot across the street from her home. | | studied more thoroughly. slowly began to rise. Cloud ~gefence director William Van Ca" lavastigniion 20th
| Others say they saw it streak into Lake Michi- “Pressures to conformity in academic cir-| cover rolied in about 10 pm. Hors of Hillsdale County erg of flattened reeds was found,
Ean. Scientists and police combed a Tacre| |cles and fear of ridicule have slowed the| allowing only periodic sight- Sec Dr. Hine pollicis. od the circle being about 30
area near Pittsburgh after a woman there saw | | study,” according to Robert Hall, a sociology | ings. tiation wae’ sh. SUGHDE in diameter and since then
| the object crash to earth “smoldering.” | | professor at the University of Iiinois in Chl-|  wpye never seen anything a four other nesis have been
|" Despite these witnesses and search stforts, | | cago ie Thier mid we a Lo epaln : "| found close br, some
| however, the thing has yet to be found. In this | | “The possibility of life on Mars is an un-| ga ov 56 SHE TE J (| SE pr ew xe =
| regard, it is like all other unidentified fiying | | popular thing to consider these days,” says| or ‘300 feet off the ground to Flying Saucers During the last eight months,
objects, or UFOs, which are mysterious be.| |Frank B. Salisbury, a professor of plant phy-| tne est Then it slowly began 3 5-266 mo_less than seven differen
cause they are-seen but never found. | |siology at Colorado State University. At the| ¢; move up” Gain Proponent sightings of Flying Saucers bave
Whatever it turns out to be—meteor, satel-| | risk of being unpopular, Mr. Salisbury told the | \F*0 TRL rd ry bees Swpectadl 7a We ped
lite part, hoax, weather oddity or man from | |fifth annual Space Conference this year that| : expand BEE Ss bn TREE.

Yor euch | | “th y be some natural explanation of | DOY have been swamp gas | NEW YORK — The nephew of Hundreds. of sightseers - have
rend een wees ys ver] l Weel a AT Brera rg be which was suggested was the ihe late Dag Hammarskjold | flocked to the Horseshoe Lagoon
| consciousness following rash of reports of | [considered is that UFOs are spaceships from | Sous oF, Weenie JRE has startled "America’s top in the Tully District during the
| fiying saucers in the mid-1950s: “We've had | |Mars.” § a science writers by telling them | a ay ey maT
| bes veroets ia EF than 1 0ky. Yoke dice Fueling the flyingsaucer controversy has| 7% Lass |he believes that flying saucers | which are
1967, when we had more than a thousand,” says | | been the large number of reports from what dre begiraid Be abe |[exist and that they come from The RAAF has taken the
{a spokesman for. Project Biue Book, the Ar| | many people consider reliable witnesses —pilots | This was not the same” he |r (pace a
| Force program set up in 1948 to evaluate re.| |with technical backgrounds. Since 1947, more | y swamp gas lights | Kout Hammarskjold, whose ask for clippings from the
{ ports of the phenomena. than 100 private, military and commercial pilots | been any swamp gus lights hate uncle. was secretary gener- po isin ong git pire
Visitors From Outer Space have reported spotting strange objects in the| Sroun al of the United Nations, spoke examined, and any further
| iney coms from, but there 16 noJack of theories Pinning down such reports is difficult, how. |. |Mr. Bressette sald his Broth | space” writers | associs-
| =o of controversy. The Amalgamated Fiying | | ever. “Some of the boys did report things they |, Sr, Jeffery, also reported see- [lt
Saucer Clubs of America, Inc., is sure the| [couldn't identity a few years ago” says u| 0% 8% 0 HCE Bo or a || Hammarskjold also suggested v J
| saucers” come from outer space. How do| |spoxssman lor American Airlines. “But our| Oo me then shot across |[that our space neighbors’ are 8
{ hey know? The “space people” have told ||P alesse have on fle a great pum. the 4ky.at a very high speed. [decoming more and more Inter- 3
dy Nevertheless, “we have on file a great num- , a
|“ Net only that, sys Gabriel Green, who| | ber of reports trom pilots who don't want thelr| An ofticer in control opera: sind heb people are doing -
| te Coors oy “apace peop pve | Tames asd but wl want Go tll Somaindy| tions at Semigge Ae Fore [marth FC
coniactees information about life on other | | What they've seen, claims J. B. Hartantt, Jr, | Base, Mount Clemens, Mich, || "The pos prodfipergr dbs
{ planets and solutions to insurmountable prob. | President of the Aircraft Owners and Pilols As. | said the Canadian sighting |seig regen

" y sociation, And he says: “I haven't drawn any || was the fourth reported to |firmed, create problems of le. Feb. 7, 1966

}lems on our planet.” One suggestion allegedly Xt, tainly || him last night. The other |7al, political and technical js Los Angelés Herald Exadiner A-11
| made to Mr. Green a 1960 by a vist from AL [ conclusions myselt, but T think we've certainly || him last might. | The other sal, political and ¢ [ke A-11
| pha Centauri, a nearby star: Run for Presi. (Jf §0t a good mystery on our hands. fies Tun Come mbes So Ld LR u
| dent as a write-in candidate. (He campaigned | . . © T atch F ed
| brief, then. decided not to run.) | Bi ; He said no radar reports § UN Watc or Saucers Urg

‘The National Investigations Committee on .- 2 - had been obtained on any of |B UNITED NATIONS, N.Y, er space is sending flying
| Aerial Phenomena (NICAP), a private re-| 7 ’ the sightings. S| Fev. 7 (AP)—Colman Von. saucers regularly on test
|search organization in Washington, doesn't| i he os Mr. Bressette reported jet keviczky, an employe in the flights to earth. |
hold with that theory. “We reject reports of Hom a Ow ares st sue UN. Office of Public Infor- He told Thant only the |
| noble beings landing on earth o solve all our PS - point while the group watched mation, proposed to Secre- United Nations could be ex- |
problems,” says a spokesman. So men from | >A o 205 Sg The Laks Dhuices Sots tary-General U Thant today pected to have sufficient
Mars are a lot of bunk? Not necessarily, says £ Le fy . But there was no possibility that members of the United authority to establish con-
the committee. It believes 3 Congressional in- | [= p the object he saw was a jet. : Nations establish a network tact or represent mankind
vestigation would prove that UFOs “are real | [4 + In Michigan new reports of to observe flying saucers. in a facetoface meeting
physical objects . . . under the control of ving . - Vonkeviezky, who says With extraterrestrial visi-
beings.” As an afterthought, the spokesman | he believes someone in out- tors.
| says: “There are a tremendous number of ego- < E. ce — ea ——
| maniacs who have been able to appoint them. > nn _ BJ ECT {
| selves experts in this field because it's so con- - Ral KN aad
fused.” - SSR dad sa
| One man who's not confused at all is Charles - Pa r —
| A. Maney, professor emeritus of physics and | Ee—— perry = 3 OVER MT Wi LSON
| mathematics at Defiance, College in Ohio. Says - E
the professor: “These objects are unquestion- Teme" ee | — A-2 Los hageles HeraléEraminer 8% Thursday, April 21,1966
| ably from outer space.” He bases his reason- ——— ET sere was something over| there picked up “no unusu-
{ing on the fact that the objects often interfere | === fb i= = EE ne’ th pect
[ with local electrical circuits, indicating to him | Sas TES |||]: | fecunt Wilson early today Bie] a.
[they have “a means of propulsion associated [RR ps Ea Ths oa i 'An Alr Force spokesman
bebo ac) Fire sss 5 || 1s = II { fl Police and newspaper | at Vandenberg said the Air
“There's Nothing To It” 4 RTE HIE osm |i switchboards were flooded | Force's “Project Blue
| Such notions are scoffed at by astronomers, Soo ac’ =a = #1 ||| [Ff] with calls describing the | Book” office in Washington
| Bowever. “All this is imagination outside the |Sem——- { |] Heads 2] 9) al object variously asa “puff,” | was investigating.
realm of science,” says Donald H. Menzel, di- Hi oe | a a “greenish ball” a “flat | An observer at Mather
rector of the observatory at Harvard. “T have Hi lier = g £23 oval green object with a | Air Force Base near Sacra
| examined Air Force cases and discovered that Hi Eee hes long tail and a light at the | mentotheorized that the ob-
| UFOs all have simple explanations in terms Ho? : | (Ee qi end” ject may have been gas res:
{of well-known natural phenomena. There's not || . i x \ bl \ oe rd =F a It was first sighted about jgue left from Nevada
| one cause, but hundreds. Some are quite spec-| 4 |'g_ 5 A “5 o avo 4 4 am. and remained In View| missile firings which re-
| tacular, such as reflections from ice crystals or || 3 2 {5 TC — for about half an hour. | Dected light.
| bright stars, searchlights on clouds or high- | {ll I 1 whe?” Ga | A “similar fireball was | sgt. David Tellotson, of
| flying spider webs. But to some people the exis- | (I | a: sighted about the same [Hollywood division, said the
| tence of flying saucers is a matter of religious || | : Fr { time from Sacramento and [object here appeared to be
| fanaticism,” he says. 4 s\a) C7 | hssncsd | from Vanderberg Alr Force |over Griffith Park. “It was a

But Mr. Menzel reads more into the Air K \W o> (¥. 5 Base, it was reported. bright green splotch, elon:
Force data than does the Air Force itself. Of || tas fo SE 4 ‘Vandenberg reported no |gated, and not blinking,” he|
the 9,786 UFO reports made to the Air Force || TH] — - - ri launches during the said
| since 1647, 673 remain classified as “unidenti- preceding 24 hours which | The only solid fact emerg:
| fied.” a spokesman says. He defines this cate- 4-18-66 « might account for the phe- |ing: A lot of people are up at
{Bory as containing sightings whose pertinent ‘Report Them . . . Forget It— 3 nomenon and said radar '4 am.
TT Satay aoe DH I Have Enough Credibility Problems As It Is’ ei

=== Page 15 ===
EE i ne ——— ee Se En | [8
; > AN ! Emde gol va i [
GOLDEN GATE hea ib METRO ER Vl | Cat
Handicap-—Results Oakland RY f= rl une wunPM I 1] ol WW
Ae eee 30 Revd > dass Wags LAST C2.
sdvasvom' es cv 0 00000000 emowowsowssies toro sasamowm Rag § 6
® ee TR 2rd pr
: Cl dE
Flying Saucers Are & enw
- / od lr - -
iy A i Wy [7
Poppin’ Up All Over bill | "I %= Ic.
oppIn Up ver =" —
ee at n— porary
. mn One Shot A | ey
P EC >) By Man MYSTERY
Ne, = In Maine 1] 2 OBJECTS
Ee gee |, wpm) & IN_ SKY
HEE BE aT ome nll EEE 5) € pe ST pe
2 7 Ge hi lil Lf Th Ti Up ree, su Tt repo
pe” EER RFE Eee RTE hs ce
CTR 8 {Fi 2) Ld io lif. |) I TE ne RX TE yy
i ig lo wo 5 ily By Reg SA Er
Test VRE EL RCI [or a rl 2 25 Eergararis os TT
Red bt 2 Ws TN Ears SEEEERES TE
_—a a RM AIRLINER DETOURS | Ohio Police Troll [2 7 rit id a EL ms Rin
PICEA SIRES. 10 Chast UFO. Urommie [EET reo
Flying swamp gas? wm ram ~paeEte ERY Sel STE . FEEEE
FEfeSEreE Ts SEs in EDR Flying saucer’ pict on show ee 0)
lir Force UFO Siz EEisZLREn o YEE ees
report refuted Tien  |aremtis § or le MCLs
Tors Coy Vir ar cote wort nl EF kl eo et, QPP Chase
= = Len a 3 | A \ 4 4 First UFO
—— = = 40 See ‘Flying Saucer’
= 5 E: SEs Asks Probe of Flying Saucers [Michigan Corr
he) fo boy uy oct Spr AN r= Hn 57 |UFOLands [S57
EE ER | Ghee SEEmmeceEtis fH nSwamp SESS EE
ro TM Another 'UFO' Sram EC me memmmss  S=ocoosT |ame dumm ven ow ARB,
Stoo.) SEES Ee, CGHEESRERT  Jumes oo
Now those flying saucers oe JR ee — EE ee
come to Canadian skies i & BREWER Welcomes ie i pr
T= Tl | UFO. | == Es
EERE esis (SHEET Jas | || LANDING SITES AVAILABLE “C55, | || [55mm oo es [a0
ECE vl a | Signeo... Barry Jvers MAYOR Hl EEmEsE Emmons
SETA BEATE RC : Befses Sheen
seem SEES IIRY EEE EERE | Seat ameter he EEE Bree

=== Page 16 ===
—_— . -
eons [ie fo ERA S .
4-12-66 ATR i ¢4 3 aucer
Head Saucerer Believes i J m—— £3 ——" EE Ee f.
4. = p= a Pig % = 5) h
Martians Are Watching Us wr, a) ih Veo i | 2 tin
SA go no nl Wo “4 | DETROIT, MICHIGA]
Who's in All fig 5 —— a4’ Report
Wi — T_T Bre MARCH 30, 19
eS TEE i Pr : Five sightings were re-
» =) Ere, | x ported on Monday of uaidentic
1S % AN 53 Bl | ed 0ying objects, observed
. RAR Rg “ in the sky in the Borthwest
EC Detrolt area.
. REST Northwest Preciact police
REESE BYES ANN Se sa) . : peg ee rt aed]
“Parking between my ball und the green—T'd hardly DABSNRL, Gua Schacter coe, aad Palmer
call THAT iatelligeat lie from soother placa Head Saucerer Park, coe,
By Harold Scarlett igeat life fr her planet” aay, 1:30 pol oat
pas lke Uncle Martin on ‘My Favorite emiees year sid Mi Woods,

Was Jesus Christ a Martian? Martian.’ * #418 Fuast, states that be saw

"If hard to say,” said Gabriel Coen said be had never seen one & Try Nek chjec vi whe
Green thoughtnully. Then be added THE SWAMP GAS IS of the unearthiings beside’ hia space lights hearding poet from
that it certainly seems plausible. RESTLESS TONIGHT, ship. Then how could he be sure they (be southwest, ia the Faust-

1's no trick at all o walk on water casio hi Weren't 8 hoax oo practical - joking V4 Buren Aviaue area.
or ascend to the heavens if you have a earthlings just putting him on? Bale Cow, 11, 19968
Siartian levitation belt a oun d your Oh, 1 wouldn't belleve Just a

; oe Wouldn't belleve Just anyone event Gata, 15, 1976]

walt and an antigravity bear to 3 Tt beers Mat paves. Ret alae, 1K, 18
Gab 8 wha waked Up. 10 toe nd said Be eS ee ea od
en explained. id, the Ma 7 2 from Mars," Green replied. over Crusk’s home at about
wihermore, he sad, the Martians lop er em 9 But if you get a call from the White $30 gm: Crank said tot
So Alig rh Shy waa \ House and were 101d President Eisen (be UF came rom (he wvet
ay - hower would meet you at a certain  Seppefdur a moment andthen
FR Wake wn, Silas Sa Lo [> 7 time on the corner of Hollywood and +a fst seen folic ealt, vain
eed pd ine, and you went there, and a man  UEhs changing frac the color

i Ap aak A 4 Vine and you went there and a man 5 cane eg Becrler
thority on these mafters because, be A ee Yo by mame. Wouldn't you be. AtS:30 p.a., sixieen-years
says, be met and tafked with a Martian 74 NE Be es ee cd of Michael Senta, 12810
once. Also a four-foot man from the hr ARE Virgil saw something with a
Kipha Centaur sar syste. A some : CIEE a he ce ached paceing vit ih tlio er uk
Other unearthly visitors. — o prove himself by disappearing sear Viegi 1 Gleoial,

SOMETIMES, HE said, he met these La / EE “BUT HE REFUSED and told me to claims also to lave seen it
fying saucer crewmen by {elepathle < walk away” Green said. “He was on a 3 Be sme tine cb Smday
Sppostments, These were arranged bakony five floors high, and T walked “OL
ut smite of Bo wih iis Sr te 06 Ty Te od seh
pathic talents rom the Post, May ond and turned and looked back and had observed somethin

“hed cnc in while” be said, “they From Go. sh Dos My 3 1966 Te em are ae gion] with red, yoiow 42d grees
would ust call on the phone.” ; _— . e wai gone. There was no logieal 4 TE 1 OO

Green, who lives in Los Angeles, is 90Ive these problems before we destroy physical contact with crews of these were really canals for distributing the place for him to go © that balcony. Seeman aE oe tans .
the head saucerer — the president — ourselves.” craft. short water supply from theie polar Green believes the spacemen are Un. saw the cbject near hs hort,
Ee oe ry me oer Green #8 1d he fs trying o do his Green said he has sighted 85 0 100 regions, and that the two Martian  g,Ghioh PPPOE IMIPICTIN Se Sy he chiec ear be homes
Ghabs of America. le best 10 help. them Spread that Spacecraft around Los Angeles over moons are really artifical satellites ig he or oimerwise they Could have bm mine,

Not being too telepathic, we just message the years and has met “half a dozen st lke the Russian astronomers Ba% gested ihe earth long ago Karen Ellington, 17, 15587
called Green on the phone to Interview “The solutions they have given,” he OF 0 members of the crews. Supposed They say they want nothing from LaSalle, was walking to the
him about the recent rash of flying said, “deal primarily with resolving the BUT GREEN BELITTLED his own _ Green said he had met the Alpha p froat door of ber home about
Swsoer sightings around the CoMNLEY. © mths hr a el nd experiences. Centauri man several times — once in US but our friendship,” be said. “They midnigh, wien she sticed a1

“Itis a continuation of their efforts poverty. They hope to eliminate the “They're so Insignificant It's hardly the Green home would never destroy Un. This would be cect i ns. 1 sppaared
to enlighten us,” Green replied in calm have-not nations . . . through superior worth talking about them,” he said. “He was dressed ordinarily and was  * viclation of their code of life. They to be about 150 yards awsy,
and cultured tones. financing. They have an advanced eco- “Some of our members have actually about four feet tail, although this was ~~ "ever® all living things. according to the police re-

“The current series of sightings and nomic system they call Universal been taken for rides in spacecraft unusual. Most of the reports of them Apparently they do have lapses, Port aad stood motionless over
Nendo T west, wh et Oh To a rE om o are that (hey re nommal height or though rio Toe ores,
They tre not going fo 0 away, 8 what T persoeally am trying to trans: rid If any Soult turn Cow a larger,” Green sald “There was one decision that If any bear, Linsoad. Il was ap
some members of our goverment mit” never asked me.” "There wis that space ship that ation on cull fis 3 rien war. Ei ped og 3
Would Tike Ci - landed maar Albuquergu for intance, bead, It will fal back on the people bi Solo 3

y ng down HE SAID RUEFULLY, however, Groen said he met the Martian by querqu head, it wil Ble ici oa toe Jot and 4 frees
"RY 50 THEY kee biz down, J%, SALD, BUEFULLY, boveve, | Groen mi be mt fhe Mart, by WI Coy of fo mm hn five wom: ho fred Gren ia “1 del 15 5 8% 8

io poe an economic pinch that has prevented looked just lice anybody you'd meet a: They were very beautiful, very well their latest decision has been ie Bios td police

What with nucle © protferation omic pi looked “ost like anybody you'd meet 0 even to nine fect GL” HI EXPLAINED that he hast been af fe copes shcpond hes
growing, It seems rather Gbvious that Peeled n the street” He wae casually Pr read wet ether iota 10 Contact with & Spaceman or two oF | sad Behes, aris, Sas
nese sat resolving he resent Green suid be runs the spur che Re, Gre i 0 SUE SEY Tilers bot would “raiper mot thee years now. © pi o revel was tro
problems facing mankind, we will out of his own home at 2004 North Secve RAIRMETY, BRECSRORE Cn Ch whole list Green said people from many planets | the east fo the west,

Bcstroy ourselves and perhaps some of ng : ot are visiting arth, and that accounts | Sve sid she bad seen others
em pe Se ol he overhead.” He said there are All In all, & handsome chap, Green Whe re did they park thelr space 3° visting earth, and that accounts | _ She said head ss
plained. clubs In 50 major US. cities and said. ships while they were visiting him? {in -Be wie val of fl deers k

"This fs one of the primary reasons Sbroad, with a total of about 3500 “1 felt his hair and it was quite “OH, SOMETIMES they actually ou, us ae favorites is the Ver
why the extraterresirias started mak. members. Houston has no club, he said, coarse and worn in a V-shape down to. park them — hang them up in the sky One of his favorites is the Verusian
Ing visitations in 1947, shortly after we but he does have some interested Hous: ward the center of the forehead,” With a force field around them. Then Seout ship. That's the one about 50 fee
8 Sloped. this ability — to watch over fonians on his mailing fist Green said. “But 1 rather doubt all they have an anti-gravity beam apd in diameter with the three protruding
ee Oy el or essa Eh 1 on ole ha mos avo 1g Pembapherss on (be boos and he
vanced sclentific, technological and group,” he said, “meaning that many more than we do TR 5 It 98 de te th porthols around the cab
Sociological knowledge to help us re- of our members have made actual “HE SAID THE MARTIAN canals “Through these, they can accom- Green Said it ie operational only
oe v plish such miracles as walling on Within 5000 to 10000 miles ofa
fn v4 | > water and ascending into the heavens,” Planets surface. He said it comes down 2-Nevada State Journal
| Green said he is 41 and was a | dlearshaped mother ship tha

Sat oe se i Photographer with the Los Angeles barks Up there The mother ship car
’ “ Board of Education until he resigned "At this ores AB. ded ond Bhs
FH I RE 18 Sh purge in 3950 to {ry to. help the spacemen |, AY ths point we decided to end the Ore
Woes seul swede En LL wd te A ax Green sad naturally he asked to Angeles had bogun makifg an eerie C)
ERY A Sets aA take the spacemen’s picture, but they pieces and then an ominous blu
gre x Tefuced and he aided by thei wishes, DIup-blup.
> PARE : i Maybe the Martians were Bsten
: rw ‘An associate of mine once tried to | MAY j
Raa A A DAN CHER Sh said, “but two times the flash gun - {
[8 . > jor » b or wouldn't fire, even though the camera A
wt cabin | we 3 a perfect. working ‘condition. oy asoneE ‘aALLUP
SAUCER OR STRAW NAT, THIS FLEW IN CALIFORNIA LAST AUGUST “THAT DEMONSTRATES the pow- Mocs then tive lion Av
Highway Patrolman Rej Heflin Photographed It Through His Car Windshield ers of the mind of these people. Just 4 —-— a Lr
PAGE i-SPOTLIGHT SUNDAY, MAY 15, 1966, THE HOUSTON POST pr gg 1,
a
THE PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER, MONDAY MORNING. APRIL 18. 1966 ie mary bail of #0 U3, o
. = a wendy veo
UFO Plays Tag With Deputies in 85-Mile Chase ; PEE
y/ Hm mm
RAVENNA, 0. Apel 1 (UPI) Portage county. sberifs head ght so bright he cou look reported the abject, which had Wilson sad the abject “was | — “These wre th eincionl
Two Porisge county sherilslquariers here. directly at it Something ke an dnenas pro- caught by radar” in Pittsburgh ZR) = 1 -—- ings in 8 natiomeide Gell
deputies followed a “bright cir-| “I Bad Dever seen anything| Franklin and his crew report. truding from the bottom, hover. He said that at least seven jets rel] \ vey of the American peopl
ee ihiiod cnc Sum. Digh bers Ts a. eo he Sebo 10 poli whe sod above fhe. Eraer i whi ro. he Cleveland ava esded JH Xe] a whan saver
Gay from Abwater, Or to Free se ea Deputy Rober Wis viewed ihe Soc over asd Nel mere iding. [fr the ohlot Sherk wes ro ND — A] — ren em
Pra Fa. A etaes ot 13 mie a the rod. The two deputies were Joined] Wilson said that Spats sad ported VW — of i
Depoties Dale Spaur and W.| In Bestoo Harbor, Mich, aie the chase at East Palestine, Neff were questioned by an “Alr| (Tbe control tower at Greater UNI! 0 4 S Since late in the 1900's,
Let ware estienting alaing lect Gebers as” sos uk scrote. Site ng FORCe csooer im Freedom. Plisbareh Airport sai It RAN Ee \ cis ary aie
routine traftie accident at 5 A.M.Ibright “you cadet. 10oKki{rom Pennsylvania, by East (Air Force headquarters ated 50 UFO§ ea its radar = 4 ave been investigating I
= RT CI Ta TS — RRL, STE SN 1 le Sd Snes
Fadia to. he an the lookout for Sunday esr the downtown sec Huston it ad 50 report on the UFO.) wd W) nidenciged fying ohjects.
Th ehjct Bding thee wa. [So of he ly Thuson sad the object ppea.| “The chase lasted abo 9 “UR [ Z LN Feces rae of siting prov
‘Spaur, aa Alr Force gummer! Three Tubbiah collectors salded larger han 40 Ais and misstes sud, la ha ine, te) ib fl ST Comgreital Hoar |
rag Korean Wer: hd hh pn he Slat Rover oe a7 1a Wht lle Cac wa Foored sun 3 ET — onth and also hi speci)
re hen avon 310 [a MAW slong (ha 3. baph{sal. i woud change. sikude Je si oc sev, oho dopa - J f =
foi Smt vend {Re Too Bead of te ere san ee oh Oo md Pos | GER | THE For do onsen marcas
speeds from 80 to 100 miles anlJoseph Praaklin, said It was| “It was a fury thing,” Hus. sylvasis,” Wilson said Zs | i about fying saucers? How
ou {about 15 stride Jn the ai, hadlton said, “but whea the object Nel a onetime Seabee, l HEEL Deopie have seca them? 4
T8 was about i000 feet Iola steellike shell mad looked|got too Jar ahead of us 4p agreed with Spaur in the de 7a they Teal or Imaginary? Do p)
a Le 1 fot edi 08d nation oe Shute 0 8 0rd i Wt EA —— | Ty
bright,” Spaur radioed to. thelshae. He: said Jt bad & beilisst| Wilson said at one time Spaur ed that ji “had Bo wings" ) JN \" Tow 1, ae other planeia?

i” 5p h Sage OY Nore an 15 Gal Pl

AS Lo dagels becadiramen Hk Toesday May 1, 196 J 1 We VAN Vf Serviraets Bove bem it 04
fs [R LY doing ical Amerigo

. o . o \ AWB an: porte oF ai
ysterious Sky Objects Have Texans in Dither LI JOR RE a
CT oo vgn of he an To
Se
he oc or avo iin vl soit a ie Gs ah Ma hi Sy Sve Nahant I! Hl
(AP) — Rural residents tolpeared to be tin and alumi|&:10 pm. [the Brice community 21] carry a man, and 1 got the First, almost everyone
Cas st Bas fy or Fa et a Se? es ST er
ject drop from the sky yes| David Duncan, 2, with Ral friends tried to pursue the (other men told of watching] recounted. read something about fly
terday, and two men said Mlle sation KOBE in Mem| Object, “conesbaped and [minutes later as something] Hatley and one of his com. ” steers. For something 9 1)
Comghi De an Warned Wa een, KOT 10 Mey er” ooking fa 8 ‘Sat |About 0" feet Bok 10 pny And 0 of hl com Cg Paice 12 avs obo
ou ‘apparent cause I | and #8 appeared to halt [tect wide and shaped like alPTion$ Went to notify au SEN IR. thi fining may, at fst,

Sull another farmer In the| M3 Ernest Lee. Whose near the Salisbury commu. [cigar plunger to earth thorities, leaving two other Jo ASR as ed seem unusual. However,
same vicinity reported helhome is 3 miles southeast of| nity § miles south of Mem. | It bore no markings, they Ten on guard. The strange PR Weg 3-25-66 farms of the history of the
heard an explosion, watched|here. 3potted something] phis. As they drew near, (said, and appeared to havelobject started smoking, burst ye le's awareness of other H
Srother unidentified. fyinglwnich looked “ike two Pars] however, it swept away ai [radios and soowt 30 Saints fare and burned, Hat | “ICs fyingsaucersighting time and Tm determined to ie nel" deni or evens, Oia igre
object fall and picked up alchutes™ hovering In the air| high speed. batteries on the outside” |ley reported | ks extracediarlly high. 13 fi

=== Page 17 ===
World Flying Saucer | 2 SOUTH AFRICAN POLICEMEN || ||] be Long Before
| 1 ’
>-6.6o || REPORT SIGHTING OF ‘SAUCER’ || SANUARY 15, 1008
Believers Convene |{ JOHANNESBURG, South Afri- The two men claimed that, as aucer Is Forgotten
€a—South “African police and they approached the object, it THE HERALD-NEWS
i MINNEAPOLIS TRIBUNE scientists investigated Thursday yack off silenfly at great speed By PETER A. DVARACKAS mystery which has yet to be
New York Times Service + They accept spacecraft as a|| a report that a flying Saucer- iv 11. ves shooting out of its Herald-News Sports Writer |solved.

LOS ANGELES, Calif, —|fact of life. Their interest is|| type object bad landed on a ct T40 ; Many months will pass before| “Listen . . , this sounds crazy,
The “urgent problem" of|in contacting spacemen di-|l main highway near Pretoria, the the impact of the strange flying |but 1 saw something in the sky.
improving communications | Fectly or through telepathy.” || country's administrative capital. Scientists who examined the, objects which dominated the Do you know what it is?” This

th the th ds of visitors | | spot where the officers said that North Jersey skies this we ek|was the question posed to the
‘with the thousan 's of Visitors | Green, who regularly runs “Two patrolling police officers they saw the object are reported fades into memory. {police at the North Jersey police
from outer space who sup-|for president as a “space age | Teported seeing the flaming <5 CFE BELT stxdost The bright white disk that |radio hook-up in Pompton Lakes.
posedly are circling the earth | candidate,” says he cannot|l “saucer,” about 30 feet in di- 15 ocitia of tha tarod tend streaked across three counties|The calls came in from Wana-
was afforded solemn delib-|practice telepathy but insists|| ameter, shortly after midnight. a a a and hovered periodically over|que, Ringwood, West Milford,
eration here this weekend at|he has met spacemen on atlj Onc of them, Koos de Klerk, had been ernffries ls sive | the Wanaque Reservoir will pro-| Paterson, Totowa, Wayne an d
a special convention of fly-|least six occasions. The last|l ssid that the shiny copper<ole Of €ither side of U Heindll| vide an ample amount of con-|Butler.
ing saucer buffs. of his visitors, he said, Wasi ored object resembled a giant uso WES reported aligly i versation for weeks to come. In-| ~ Astounded residents were!

[four feet tall and came from |i spinning top. Oi 1 deed, thousands of eyewitnesses searching for an. explanation.
aofy the party B00 dele ive Alpha Centauri solarf Shmsdnted Pro : know well the story of UaEven the police ' were dum
es was a self-prof favata: " mysterious terrestrial stranger. founded. They too saw the white,
“interplanetary traveler” |" | THR BORIOH WAL, A | Not that the tale of the flying oval hovering in the heavens
named Standing Horse, an| A muscular, even-featured | == PT 7 1 gicer is over yet. trom their prowl cars.
Englishwoman who regularly|young man named Wesley Investigators from the Nation-| The UFO was described thén
issues mimeographed reports Bateman said he never had BROTHER JUNIPER BY FR. JUSTIN McCARTHY & LEN RINO al Investigation Committee on las a white and garishly bright
on her conversations with met spacemen but that he — —— — Aerial Phenomena (NICAP) may|disk, two feet in diameter.
space travelers, a man who was in “constant communica- bi i arrive today in Upper Passaic| According to observers, the!
offered to book “group|tion with them through tele- ed { County from Washington D.C. to/odd movements of the myster-
sightings” of flying saucers|pathy” and offered a_pro- rg probe the UFO sightings. ious visitor was enthralling.
and a presidential candidate gram of instruction to other | “2D QO Dr. George White, an elec-|Some felt as if it were “toying”
campaigning on the flying| delegates who sought similar og ronlcs expert, and Dr. Job with police, Hin ud bor-
icket. contacts, His blonde wife, p— 'egano of sti- ough officials forming,
BEE [Jonell, attired in black Leo: [0 FY mie the soem of the midentitedialves aimost ino ts reser
% rks aj

THE. SPACE ‘Lults,. wh of tards, was hapt: busy: siguing ~~ Gewmel NCAP. Announcement of the were looking down” upon the
SUIT. Ju 6 SURES OR Sen SN impending study was made by|spectators from a silent station-
tablishment called the Blar-| here is no mystery as to 1] Richard Hall, assistant director ary position high in the heavens
ney Castle, weren't much im-| piper the space men are { KZ Jee] of NicaP, and by making neat right angles
pressed with Thursday's So-|witiet (18 SPECS TET 6 N= % Nightly Vigil |as if it were using the sky as
viet moon landing, but they rong infiltrated our society,” Zz Police at Wanaque, the state's a chalk board.
were awed and confused by| Z4Vp ie SCRE SIUCT ME eis A largest water storage basin, con- Made Several Stops
what they reported to be a/c Why so many are coming, Wr S Ta 2 tinue to maintain a nightly vigil| The UFO then made quick|
sharp increase in flying|\what's going to happen?” [= 4 = IK) 2 = at the headworks, in Ringwood [stone at various locations in the
saucers. 2.502 10. Bo S&F; F- [ JAS Avenue and Westbrook Road (community: Lakeland Regional

Flying Saucers. —— <7 = Jo to spot that weird disk of light High School, the Houdaille sand

Onf delegate, Marianne R 3 2-3-66) JNR=== —7 IRA ae ‘which was seen as late as Thurs: it the overhead bridge in Ring: |
Francis, warmed that the| (To the Editor, S.C.M. Post) NY o / i [4 nie day night making sharp dips and wood Avenue... sed then it]
sightings could mark the be-|  gir_Citizens beware! This is 1 | AE il PI maneuvers over the reservoir: |dicappeared.
gigning of some “ominous| not a drill! If you report what dlr ~ oa “| » It was Tuesday at 6:30 P.M." Hours later at 2:15 Wednesday,
cianges” for the earth's pop-| you see, your report will be ki J Nw 3 diy * +2] when residents, motorists, muni-\morning, it re-appeared over,
ulation. But the convention | treated ‘as hallucination. Your > # cipal officials, and police Wyckots and foc mites Tar
chairman, Dr. Frank| honest desire to help solve an << CF TN §] anced up at tie sky and began it was spied over the reservoir
Stranges, said the “interplan-| §i0lnled’ by harassing cone = the first chapter of an aerial in Wanaque where police say it
etary visitors” would turn | frontation by paid investigators < E vd almost came to rest at the top.
out to be “angelic creatures| who are instructed i suppress -~ J he 10 foot og and
‘whose mission is to hel the auchenticity of their investi- - - - " — am. ‘was gone at 4:15 am.
Rind P|: gation. “These flying saucer stories are getting more ridicu- Police, reporters and rest

The UFO Project research has lous every day. As Mints Tok a8 um

The delegates were gen- tive continuously for — a TT = or over Wanaque and
erally well groomed, articu-| more than 20. years The scope s "$ both Wednesday and Thursday
late men and women who| and extent of fhis project is a el
could have blended into any| carefully guarded subject. Dur- The story of the mystic sky

i 0 vere| ing that time it has maintained { visitor is’ not without intrigue.

PTA meeting. Many were| "Continuous status of “Classified The United States’ AIF Force 16:
heads of organizations whose | fontiaous sims of tC ar & 00 Ulla Malia a
members spotted and photo-f tion released by the US. Air J bohich, August: Bobocls, 8 sasck:
graphed “unidentified flying| Force for publication is periodic [SSUES Bot of the stersmionsl Total
objects” and claimed to main-| Teporls of a few selected cases j& 3 1 pi J Flying Ob
tain telepathic “communica: | of mistaken ientiy_Seoeh ns WS EE here Ii
tion with space travelers. February 1, by Dr Allan Hynek: 5] Initially, when the object was|
“In Search Of Flying Saucers.” first sighted, the Air Force said.

NEARLY ALL agreed that! gonest, sincere observers no it was an official helicopter with
What they called the “flying| | Honest, sthcere, oBssTyers 10 a strong beacon. A few hours
saucer movement” Was Un-| accepted authority. (Why con- { 9 later Air Force jets were spotted
dergoing sharp expansion.| tinue to slap your own face?) by police flying over the Wana-|
Two delegates announced | For several years actual sight. DAILY SKETCH  |que. 4
they were negotiating to pur-|, ings of spaceships are compllec KS ne Tuesdax,: May 17, 1066 " Experimen{?

Chase radio stations to hep 8 FIyng Saucer Clubs all over SEES eoe Toberts theorsd. (he ob
transmit their theories, Sev-| te world Amalgamated, Fling “might possibly have been a
eral flying saucer magazines  (AFSCA) maintain a compre government experiment in the,
and hundreds of books were | hensive information department [POLICE CONSTABLE Donald Cameron made out a report [creation of an antigravity ma.
on sale at the convention. that Togishars CTH Seiian last night and hoped the Chief Constable would believe rs Ro

reports from all over vorld. at ‘As yet nobody really seems

“These people are contac-| Anyone can write to AFSCA, that he really DID see six flying saucers. io, know what the UFO was oF
tee-oriented,” explained Gab-| 2004 N Haover Street, Los An- Pc Cameron was at home on sick leave when he looked out where it came from. Some say|

eras geles, California 90027, US.A., a window and saw six glowing objects hovering in the distance. [it is a balloon, oth n
riel Green, a serious yOUNg | and receive a concise, conscien- “1 thought I was seeing things and called my wife,” he sald last night. |fror Ms Rom Cr
man who served as president | tious report about any informa- “We watched them for abolit 30 seconds before they disappeared at speed | Irom, Mars. rst. ti
of the Amalgamated Flying tion Ife is seeking. soi -. = awards Manehewereed | But this is not the first time
Saucer Clubs of America!) we don't need to search for ER “They were about a mile fi UFO has been sighted over
TT Fig Smceswe ony need Police Kept Bus: Paterson News BY dod me hee |e ETON Sone BTL

_ to’ acknowledge their presence. P y Tan. 15, 1966 Cleary oven though it was |Charles Capen, former chief ea
Actually we are on one of the . 19, 1306 5 oul day. ¥ goss of the Rect Jaci ba

i i strangest UFO's in the universe. One was bigger th pc
Fiying Object | sommiiny inves Spotters Jam Up-County| |i sme sm [oie samy Coen
Si hted in Winois vestigating us cannot understand shaped dome — obviously looked very similar to the object}

9 our belligerant attitude toward R d f . ere iP game [described in the newspaper.

their conscientious effort to con- others were ov: he add

NORMAL, Tryarr, oads for UFO Glimpse | “riFiaiofes [Soma osc
eral persons living on the Neither can". RI Broced 8 “Helans >

ol THER amma INGWOOD — If the little]them to move on, but they key pnroad camercaclens land bright” two weeks ago, over|
same block here said they | "UFO spotted 5-16-66 men from outer space had the|coming back on the other sige] | U7" ES, Comeron said: (Ly Hill in Stonelown and
saw an unidentified flying] . PASADENA (AP)—Scores of] up-county police on the run|of the road, so we just had to some ribbing from the lads, |Board Mountain near Sloatsburg|
object last night. startled residents called news-| Tuesday, thelr earthly counler-|give a couple of them sum |DuC nat ls not whal Read. sccording fo Charles

y u worries me s ora,

The object had four blink- es cr Ale Sey a cos Towle FEL idtemet Tey ad overytHing,| | the Cher Constable thinks. ~ ("POCTNe assistant engineer,
ing lights, red, white, blue ovo owe in the skies over] “Forongs of the curious ringedscopes. I was waiting to See one| ~—~——————— [for NJDWSC does not believe|
and green, proceeded north- yo "san “Gabriel Valley last| Rormally deserted Wanaque|of them get out with a geiger [that the UFO might have been a
easterly, hovered over a pio Reservoir in this small hamlet| counter Tho sky, however bad failed to]|"ysierious attempt to pollute
grove of trees, then returned “Giticers said some residents| 3 created what old timers The sky watchers were out||make return appearance Fri. a RNY. Tae -
southwesterly. ~The object saw the lights “travel fast, then| $8Y is the first traffic jam infin force after wide spread pub-||day- Throngs of interested persons
was seen first by the Merle slow, then stop.” They said one| the history of the borough. The(jication of the sighting of uni.|| Since the sightings, Tuesday, are still lining the perimeter of
Simpson family, then others. Pasadena area resident report. ¢ars parked along Westbrook|entified flying objects over the| [both Wanaque and this borough| fre seqeryois So maton a glimpse
They said it was flat and | ed the smell of perfume as the] Road and Route 511. reservoir. The elusive thing in||have been overpopulated with|iuf tne brilliant phantom that has,
small. lights appeared and moved. Ringwood Police Lieutenant, a television cameras, newsmen||for the moment, vanished. into

| ssh Jack O'Hara said “We told (Continued on Page 2, Col. 7) [[and the curious. 5 othr:
Ee ] Sx Tn sid We Uid(Coatinned on Page 3, Col. 7) Z

=== Page 18 ===
Be NY pe
GOLDEN GATE [13] akl an hh] i INV in METRO
NA f= bh
$ we em FINAL
Handicap--Results
ESTABLISHED FEBRUARY 21, 1874 + OAKLAND. CALIFORNIA
93rd YEAR, NO. 81 B 5 TUESDAY, MARCH 22,1966 10 DAWY, $2.25 A MONTH
- 87 Coeds | Bishan. x. ¥. October 24, 1005 THE SUNDAY PRESS
. . . Ro < > :
Eerie 1896 Sighting Observe —— ENCOUNTER WITH A SPACE SHIP
Object | | T Know What I Saw’: |
5 Jin HAZE WOOD That a bags sik bas ds som 20 he parceved Object now a aw;
The socatled Undated been hovering over Oakland for ght, he atracted the atenton
Fiying Objects (UFO) seen the lat few nights basin he of the cer passengers and al
Sindy in Michigen by ot least minds of any been conclusive rtenselyinarested watched HILLSDALE, Mich. (UPD—A ; y .
0 people, recall a bizarre story ly proven. A number of persons. the pecullar machine as it county civil defense director
which appeared in The Tribune whose Integrity fs unquestiona- rade Its way through the skies oo aid’ oly Thay ye ape ra
pane Bl have seen be strange av twas hgh in the heavens Ee
od roporth td as er. bar imcedes many whose Sp. Wy Bt swe, sven 0 36 a Sy : |
and it pe - > -— hollow near a tory GEORGE . - tar a hayloft,
an ua Meg Gembmbempemmcd  Deaing wr in Tes ast sight owas Vetter ary [OB I ee i Ts |
oh de a 0 years be gh, Be pings oe Ble a it crn olan Vo ors, 4, Wiladale| 7. Willcox is a young man Tipped
fore the Wright brothers m: Alameda car were start ides northwest, > tr dogged by rumors. 2 Ay Seve ob muh:
the first successful heavier- the sight of a brillant stream of W tured quickly and disap- | Jn be at alo RE) Bll to get this work dome. wo 1 | \
aa ght st ty Hawk ght Beh in the heavens off in peared in the direction of Hay denied object ple say y can tap” bead. we | \
“Aerial ballooms, however, had the direction of Hayward. Nn lar for Grvobour. | by| farm has gone bust be- Be dod of wt yes hou |
been known for decades. The passengers distinctly saw Net aly wes to skblp might a large number of wit cause nothing ‘will grow Tog Sus 28-00 some mal wo
oe Cuban abomlp” wis he wie of mn arp mad deen by he pasenger Be ant ome fou ¥ Nouns
Del of he toa foc Gn walcad fs maser Beh in amy Ger rides of ths oar pied meg | Coe | t
m4 vor cher shag: De sl Me preentlerd Sy dacly aw Tne bra es or Ra Sei a Mr. Whom bs 1 ators |
Were Teponed. trom us at igo bird in is ules and 1Ight and the hugo bree Seutbers ibaiom mdey| ured pom mis ou [ og J
ay os Rd tt Voted lo rise and fail in fs body floating in mia [ot o doom pulmo ut| og Sd boned ee ne I Bertsnire
LL RR ER ogy I [iow 20 othr prs watcha | ew York Gly borkal wv HS ns baat wwe |
said the cran resembled a {he head of the ship. throwing & acquainted with each other and [four "sioter ships, land $n & x re fr coming rm |
“luge ba Tater seins whe savam of BH for ver Theiss re Serio a ite att | 1, Oost ba tbe ent SHE : i emer |
a Tn ole craly Ince’ oh So, sag o> of bere pear Avo Aron, Mich. | ment study and that here 1+ SERRE EN Eakng rn
id bose 1 mind wer ply doomed Sepa goptlen [pevinc ose | a aricoed posh in bo ver ARR SRINNI oe So so is shou ime
hat shapes of aircraft asd esti sengers 1B the siioet car be we ave little doobt | “The Air Force i Sd 3 9 Tn 4 New York Gy bo
mates of airspeed were stil ime greatly excited. in the minds of many people | was calling a Dr. B. Allen Hy: The handsome, 2yearod [RIS 3 with radiation |
Scences of the are whes the he poeoomensn Wi fist Gat a mcs airship has (ok, Chrous of the Dowrbors| frm ss sone of (hove RUNES ve id ey beard |
Towing story, ‘eprodsced 1a been moted by & min who had been invenid and i navigating hcirvbiory 81 Northwestern | {as 1 ue. ERT BE Ted Te
part, was writen. Seen iy watching the heavens. the heavens, University, Evanston, i, and But the strangest of i, avd SUSE SL SBR bees in 3 hospital =n ry Bie
[my eA) Bi cae wis space pee oe § arm STE
| Pores He aunt wis ales there was
investigate the rash of sight] ship and his tak with its eerie SR SE] mo pass growing where that
ho | roe" months ago ERR ot ies Thers was
[lok wil work fru So | hat happeaed, a. Wicex a 3 Sever Juch proving there.
Gn Wn. to Ar Foe| | Joow what 1 sen ter h "Nobody ever talked to ma
said we hours. | wes talking wit) vil about these ings. They Just
Tuesday, May 10, 1965 * GALLUP POLL [|| “Vem Horn sit be joined | {em nd even joking WIth GARY WILCOX  Locy ruling serie”
81 Hillodale collage cools and Mr. Wilcox touched the Ia answer to a question, Mr.
fpr mero whch | mii he ef gad Sh 5 Moran lt Mr wikor1od Ns ping
. . | [ce si lid wav Si 44a” runguy: ios be bd hich from the yserews cr an ta
\ rend over bed occupants amplan ln QA Le A on ve ey ak
d just shove the swamp some 1-| from Mars, be said When he booed him and urged him to burt his persocal He.
{000 16.1.500 yards from the dor-| turned to jet them a bag of J thelr organizations. “1 just dont worry abowt
ory er Ea th requ, But Mr. Wikom, who pro. “1 {3% dewt wary showt
= . [| 7m here whe he et i a i ch gr foe Be ny aie ts J, 1 Bo hat {seg od
| about imam today, he said | and wis out of sight fn sec: his own and make fier Poth bers oo
aucer S Tt was definitely some Kind| ands, be recaied Lng, socred ear W 08 piaying + Joke on me bot 1
- | [ot vehicle,” Van Horn said. He. In the weeks after be re- Mfatioos” He had the tle: LJ ‘ng tervics for str
said it changed from orange lo| ported the ncdent to the plone meres Bn NLT year and me even fo planes
tis awareness score fs coe of) Futher analysis of these datajed almont 30 years ago. AL that] 2) Aetual voles from out | | Ted, perhaps. wih 3 osting p Couly Sheriffs De dai barn becuse k wae JL te
ri{the highest in the year his-/show that flying saveer sight.|time—shortly after the flying| er space light of some kind. and had a| Part igi with the chores, be
tory of the Gallup Poll ings are not necessarily a phe. saucers were first noted—tour| 3) By “aw hit light at one end. visited bis farm by the desen. 12D pace,
5] “Are ying acers”_bouxt|nomenn of ceriain popalacionjout of every ten called he sui] gu oe || From al appearances 1 | They ached men who “he rl te Ta
Tori Es me {em Sin rion fcr soe bu 0 og 5) Mota, shoo sas | [ck spa 10s SHORE | he eo JL 47 rope mc a ve
or{told one of our interviewers this coliege educated persons, andluct of some overheated imag) §) Weather Saloons gromd as it moved back and| meat ageacies and ethers whe SLCC FUT TL No, Tre gt peting, to
i ey: 28 was dark 1nd 1 bad we who have ol ree eyo. Tp 15, antes Gap) 8) parnaart revelations | |Foih cros Ge round, be|  emiid themives se of Dao%eLad i Bal jimls cy Me | sod report of |
est come cut of + bulling. 1lErade school chim io have seenisurvey showed that attitudes] Those who believe they. are| | sad clals of the TBM Space Gui po” OF IAT OL SON the same thing. Thea people
oer te ar ky Sh] Mas or maghry? [toe a on Be Br fre” "To So for § | HAMOPERATORS he farmer ud Megs Mr Wieox Gd ot seem woud sey Fm creep.”
= may CA Afi mg AU FE RR Thunderstorms 1a shed the| 5%, 0 former sad Most rll ory To see 8 Mr. Wier, who bu
as ves nd| Ave fying sasoers or{iba he saucers were a reali Ufo on Other Plantar | | Thindersiorms Lashed the| sere yuu gon pyr by SU
sarod In sbout he same post imagery? We wiked Gis quer In weighing what evidence) Dy people who re Bing inf (3768 35 Ven Hors and the Sob | wanted te ee the lomdeg spat TU So¥ 19 4 Mg fam married sod ves in he vi
fi sve mince on, wi) wing ee Aer Shot city fe se age hve Sore bf 155 ted on 3 the LE Rs ee
list T thought it was plane, tuoigh the Alr Force clair ying saucers 1s Important {le as we mcm Ho. on suber dorm One man who also clafned "When the reparise arrived, Sbose analy Bes in "the
it 1 knew 1t coud't be. {iat nearly all of the reported note that while oe of te Te. lasets? et | a oe |
come of te wy moved "Sacer ghtings ire sual ora gins have Sen x Many scientific autre va. Oke reored he chjct was | farm does the milking Mr. |
Hareid Score tolls of he thoe/expleined, on ttoos, woether|plsoed, ssconting > Ale Forcolove Gat nteigmt Me mast| vibe vm iioroed | Sky id i The Ventura County (CllE) | Wilcox also owns 3 farm near |
eh Tope, Kamas {ec rors America Sink he gh wht. explanation Secache enc | Sar Socs he he FV | cut ha A Forces Fong SFree Press | Owegs where bo grows eed |
ci | TR was very Dae about/are' “real” than. believe. thy Persons with caless. training be, Sar Soe ae mimeo] day, BL He tid Wilam Vin | nies “Bom ane” oh 4-1-66 A re th impr ht |
Juss 230 in me Loew - J po” vale yates me aly to believe aplanets i the universe enough a 2] Tad label of the Air Force program Be would like fo believe the
So. vi ey pp hi ci ee prc wi se 27 1: 2 sen Ur ging: | ei me ope © | TWO In County {| shop vs T's
Allright and I coud notice afion, while 29 per cent describe school background, or Jess. One person in every three (34 [in this area during the past 10 | * Authorities “and crowds of] £ wasn't. He said be thinks that
ot {even hoe. By the time item uss figment of the imag Among those persons who be-per cen) who. paricipated i | (473 curious residents braved thar | Claim They Saw || eventually the explanation wit
of roat on ca od ot ok. iin Th cmt males ig hier ann es Tvs Sl hey br | Ua Hors id be cndd. | Gir mtr gh Y {| be ppd" fm he
Ta apposed. | ines plans ET, tne et on other panei. || s | comb the swampy ares near oie
fh deer imme va The sate chong Bn 6 re) A or i sy] | Tomy 0 Gower San S20 0% TL SRT | slovines FD || “kori peas
artd” dicing te” sight on pile sits toward elbow thy debe hem education are mont Inclined tof | either round or cbiong.” he 19K. | seen Sundsy night owing’ || says Be saw something ike
cently: |credit “fying saucers”| 1) Experimental projects, believe in the existence of intel what Washtenaw Count recently m 1
77TH tg sh we tn Sr le Sony | ro yo Se i 5 ira Does ae al is | AL est tv Var Com TS. on it 0
o-{ morning.” h “Twa tt colors is that are nt most night search- pa . Shit
oe suddenly awakened by a very) THE SHEBOYGAN PRESS, Monday, April 18,1966 das mo cag pore (Wednesday "sight, shooting|| The tw bumssibe crea
[ice How comte. 1 out wo Sheriff Aides  Buchert said #t looked 1ka | “Van Horn was called by girl irom persons who thought they [Gon word Over tbe Polat Maguly sures whese fouares were Md. |
Ee Tr two table saucers put togethe (at the dormilory. The coeds | had spolied the cbject again. | | bare been space |
{whale area seemed to be it v Ch Ti er Mrs. Marvin Mile of 19 Pa || HAY so Bave been space |
[ike & phosphoros sve. T could z hase: A UFO; ‘Portage. County Deputy She |S50Ted the lect allenaly | The imestgaion began PE RC Et |
Ba aa 4 bh A i pease, County Deputy Sher | gowed red, white, bive at least 12 policemen and that she’ spotied the object at]
fringing oben. 1 know i 3 Were ‘Close’ purine, “WL “Nett “mera | der colors citer peacas said they whch 5 p.m. Wednaaday so she wad Dus be B08 0 better ex |
flies ca RAVENNA, Oho (AP)—We cose” i th sec suru | They sad i re up and| 3 wed yg ject, ber "bisband were reiring|| Pont vey hme, the
several people a | were close, Closer than 1 ever|cars and chased it 3 miles for [4OWD, appearing Lo siop iis) by lour sister ships, land fu from Los Angeles. He A
| es wwey repens 4 imc ack fo Baga sad a dep 88 our and. Nai, from near. |e and sick again Jost when (be swamp inte Sundsy ght | She suid hat she soiced | PUP, He9Ped aL diner and
{experience 1nd at simon en ty sherit who chased a un Ravenna to Conway, Fa near [It Was shout to move mio the The sighting was cay hp [80 hey. were divas through] pied Ling, saucer com
|
set ta same tm. F (Geo fag, Sbjct tom pisbary "1 "| ghw rom a serty ier mon rete of seven BS Thowand Oke. Bokeh Hin “mt si foe
a io into Pennsylvania. ur said bec it at | beacon light thern Michigan and other an airplane in & dive at first” 3
HI - | Handreas oi ericn. in, bh sme po 143 sa pr hour: | “li veal sd hit "ein ee (Me i su ch thn and” the said peli |
3? | states reported seeing the “bril-| From the ground Spaur said | movements were (oo fast (or | dow weeks saw & glowing tall and sparks .
AL 3 : | he bil T Goat think bo was
H | Sam ag ohiny"™ object early| looked ike the head of » flash |any airplane, the girls said. | ‘The eyewitness accounts 3¢ [De8A8 10 shoot off. Thie diopeti-| (00 BEL 1 00" TUR Be
ene Ee Seraid Bachert| Lon par 4 feet wide, 1nd 18 | ‘The announcement that Hynek | Sunday night's incident nciodg #4, 2,149 about sa aleplane “|| FSCC%E B®, TVG (00
[b> ¢ Mastes, abou el was being called in came from | a man who said he and his At the same time, about || 1, (yy it, | believe him. They
of Mantua. about eight mies| Spat sad the ies of the ce to - miles to the orth, & Pimors| =
Jo ll sorth of Ravenna, said he took|ject were very distinct. “Some. | SCLridge, a base mear Detroit|ran to within 500 yards of man saw what appeared to bel 22 theres a mot wp
a a picture of the object from his|body hac ats ver it” {which “dodged newsmen's in-| mysterious object which +|| where no grass will be
pe ut i contol over ic" he . + Fiabe twat 3 dive wo
2, front yard but the Air Force said “It wasa't just floating |JUiries Monday about the object ered above the ground sald Alvin Caples of 831 Olive) ’ sated
~ EE A re ep ep Sfp eS A ET renders
