111 n ■, 111 FI Al I
Range Fouler Debrief Form

Please do not use the purple "submit" button above. Save and email the complete file manually (see below).

Please complete this form to the best of your ability. If you do not have the requested information , please leave the field blank. If there was more than one "group," please report each on a separate form for data collection purposes. You should receive a response with in 5 business days.

Last Name, First Name

Rank
0-3

Squadron

SIPR Email Address

Crew Position
wso

This information is for contact only. -

sanitizes all reports of identifying information .

Absolutely no identifying information for aircrew or squadron will be recorded for analysis.

Date (mmldd/yy)

Time of detection (hh:mm:ss Z)

Dusk
Day I Night

Contact Working Area (Ex: W-72 1A)

Contact Latitute (DD:MM:SS)

N/S Contact Longitude EIW Contact Altitude

(DD:MM.-SS)

(Ex: 22000)

Please attempt to determine a Lat I Long for the contact at initial detection. We recommend using - to reference the sensor-derived bearing and range relative to the bullseye you had in use. If that method is not available, any reasonable derivation of location will work, but please be as specific as possible and make a note in the comments section. These locations may be used to cue other means of tracking.

Altitude Constant?

Wind Dir at Contact Alt
(From)

Was the contact moving?

Di re c tion/ Speed (Ex. 090115)

Wind Speed
Yes

Please check all that apply:

Round: [Z]

D Moving Parts:

Square.· [Z]
Balloon-shaped: [Z]
D Wings/Airframe:

Metallic: [Z]
D Markings: D Translucent:

Other Shape ·[Z]
Apparent Propulsion:□

Opaque: [Z] Reflective: [Z]

Please use the field below to describe the contact and any interaction in your own words with as much detail as possible. Please be sure to include any detail not included in questions above.

-

-

/so in the global). For troubleshooting, call

Thank you for your time. Please ensure all dis

es are ripped for the entire time of interaction and

saved as a .wmv (Example:

. Squadron intel personnel shall upload those files

to the re osito located at

SF?REilft 1?52211

552757;\'.rl lPI FIi we were operating in the ~

irspace, when -

he object itself was a darker, maroonish color, approximately 12-lSft in height. Structurally, it appeared as a large, somewhat deformed balloon, but we
proceeded back to the ship, landing uneventfully.

