2 RN Intelligence Information Report |
1 8 nt ce {
1
comer ws sorto.  00-8-21/0TT09-12 [
WAAC Speculative Paper by  Karduhev sad DATEDST. 10 AFF T2 oo
TE Sinarovon Gaaceaa Has in syncs ]
Se Cimrerange on ota at Mime no mas 2 1
Armaan, 8 beptesber 1973/iow
Sen THE Loveh of ines Soviet somos 008 case 57,026
Papers i
DATE OF INFO. 6-8 September 1971 :
nace oATE Aco, oY soURCE_Yersvan/6-0
i —— ATR E—
SouRcE US citizen his report consists A
oF SAE asrus rom + Sevier eGRI om 8 kino coleng |
io” Shhcndad the Yerevan Conference, |
|
te paps cm
EH ioneer IOS KaEieahee, Toskicike. Tor Space Resasieh, Hoscov, |
Tena interoeting ut MER Spéculative apor hs had prepared on i
Toneral relstivies and the possibility of a sot Collupatng into a
CinaE "hol Tn spate Hie: coosathor vas she Iateroetionally famous
Br ry a |
His Doprior’ sha formar sescher st the Taatatutes 1 8 EMASVIKLY, in
Tie tporoach to selentitis problem he 1s ot Afraid Bh Specibite tn i
his hor to Fina & solnson, |
2. The Kardashev-Sakharov paper concerned the muthors' study of what happens {
Ti par mr mer fof |
TE Tere hot Shisced, Ih mass voLLe Just soLlanss past the pot of
Srarititiooss singutarity sod be ga forever. in stoer verass the mass |
would close in on itself and have no more contact vith the outside I
Loria," Soviets speculated on vast voila nappeh Lf ihe mass vere i
Charges, Eoey sisted tnt then tho mass vould be sbls to bouncer It
SOLIS Cotepes bus bounce back ow Aevever the mass will cone back
into’ a dErerent part of space Sime
3. After is prescotation, Kexdssher told 8 US sttendee that Sakharov vas
tly IaeEoeatan 1h: Chis coeroed suas Shenomenen 450M vecaise 18 In
lentes that the strusture of space aay be mach more. Sormiiented than
3 Trasently theses Fardashey vas 1aterented on the. seul fran the
maton oF what iepLicatiae 1 pa. FoF sotiaphyaies, pasvLeeE the
TASTE ysis of the enone 10 correct. The US arichacs fel the
Mithors” specition vas a skis fantustic and they hed taken off in
Father VILe vay. Hover, he believed Shals ApoF vis graded 15
hippy len :
5 f
