UNCLASSIFIED

All-domain Anomaly Resolution Office

U.S. Department of Defense

(U) Case: "Southeast Asia Triangles"

Case Resolution | 17 March 2023

(U) Case Overview                                         (U) Case Essentials

(U) AARO assesses that the subjects of the "Southeast     (U) Six triangular objects in a formation
Asia Triangles" case from 2017 almost certainly are       were originally flagged as potentially
cone-shaped, static fishing nets floating on the surface  anomalous and potentially posing a risk
of the ocean. This conclusion is based on a thorough      to navigation
review of the evidence by AARO's Intelligence and
Science and Technology (S&T) Partners.                    (U) Location: Southeast Asia
                                                          (U) Date: 30 August 2017
 (U) The image was originally flagged as containing       (U) Altitude: N/A
  potentially anomalous objects and posing a risk to      (U) Shape: Six dark triangles
  navigation. Additional imagery of the area from 2023
  was discovered and collected.                           (U) Reporter: An Intelligence
                                                          Community Member
 (U) Both the Intelligence and S&T teams compared         (U) Sensor: Satellite imagery
  the size, shape, and location of the initial image to
  existing and subsequent images in the same region,
  and compared it to libraries of known morphologies.

(U) Intelligence Assessment                               (U) Behavior: Noted as possible risk to
                                                          navigation
(U) AARO's Intelligence partners examined the image
and compared it to other imagery. Specifically, they      (U) Case Status: Resolved; Objects are
located clearer images in the vicinity of the objects in  fishing nets on the ocean surface
question.

 (U) The images from 2023 display several triangles and were confirmed to be static, cone-shaped
  fishing nets.

 (U) These triangular fishing nets were compared to the black triangles from the 2017 imagery and it
  was confirmed that they are all are approximately the same size of about 11m x 7m.

         1
UNCLASSIFIED
                                                UNCLASSIFIED
 (U) AARO's Intelligence partners have high confidence in their identification of these objects

  and assess they do not pose a hazard to navigation.

(U) Science & Technology Assessment

(U) Three of AARO's S&T partners agree that the objects imaged in 2017 are fishing nets.
(U) S&T Partner One specifically noted that subsequent images were especially clear; the
location and the size comparison were critical in determining the assessment.
(U) S&T Partner Two acquired and analyzed other images of the same geographical area which
revealed multiple similar triangular shapes taken in late 2022 and early 2023. These images also
show significant downstream turbidity, confirming that these nets are on the water.
(U) S&T Partner Three also found stock footage of fishing nets on the same river, which confirms
the underlying analysis.

                                (U) Figure 1: "Southeast Asia Triangles" Comparison

                                                          2
                                                UNCLASSIFIED
