Skip to main content (Press Enter).
An official website of the United States Government  Here's how you know

Official websites use .gov

A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.

Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

A lock () or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
U.S. DepartmentofWar
News
PRESS PRODUCTS
Today in DOW
Live Events
Releases
Advisories
Transcripts
Speeches
Publications
Contracts
NEWSROOM
News Stories
Feature Stories
Stories from the Services
Multimedia
MULTIMEDIA
Photos
Photo Collections
Week In Photos
Videos
INTERACTIVE EXPERIENCES
Visual Stories
Quizzes
All Interactive
Spotlights
TOPICS
Drone Dominance
DOW Support to the Southern Border
Value of Service
COVID-19 Reinstatement
All Spotlights
About
LEADERSHIP
Secretary of War
Deputy Secretary of War
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Office of the Secretary of War
More Leaders
COMPONENTS
Army
Marine Corps
Navy
Air Force
Space Force
Coast Guard
National Guard
Combatant Commands
Resources
RESOURCES
Executive Orders: Guidance for Federal Personnel & Readiness Policies
Help Center
Resources
Contact
UFO

RELEASE
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Department of War Releases Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena Files in Historic Transparency Effort
May 8, 2026 |   

Today, the Department of War announced the initial release of new, never-before-seen files on Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena (UAP) as part of the Presidential Unsealing and Reporting System for UAP Encounters (PURSUE). This interagency effort includes The White House, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), the Department of Energy (DOE), the DOW's All-domain Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO), National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and additional components of U.S. intelligence agencies. The collection will be housed on WAR.GOV/UFO and additional files will be released by the Department of War on a rolling basis. 

This release follows the direction of President Donald J. Trump to begin the process of identifying and declassifying government files related to UAP in the interest of total transparency. No other President or administration in history has followed through on this level of UAP transparency.

The American people can now access the federal government's declassified UAP files instantly. The latest UAP videos, photos, and original source documents from across the entire United States government are all in one place – no clearance required. While past administrations sought to discredit or dissuade the American people, President Trump is focused on providing maximum transparency to the public, who can ultimately make up their own minds about the information contained in these files.

The American people have asked for more transparency on these topics, and President Trump is delivering. While all of the files have been reviewed for security purposes, many of the materials have not yet been analyzed for resolution of any anomalies.

Secretary of War Pete Hegseth: "The Department of War is in lockstep with President Trump to bring unprecedented transparency regarding our government's understanding of Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena. These files, hidden behind classifications, have long fueled justified speculation — and it's time the American people see it for themselves. This release of declassified documents demonstrates the Trump Administration's earnest commitment to unprecedented transparency."

Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard: "The American people have long sought transparency about the government's knowledge of unidentified anomalous phenomena. Under President Trump's leadership, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence is actively coordinating the Intelligence Community's declassification efforts with the Department of War to ensure a careful, comprehensive, and unprecedented review of our holdings to provide the American people with maximum transparency. Today's release is the first in what will be an ongoing joint declassification and release effort."

FBI Director Kash Patel: "The FBI is proud to stand alongside President Trump and our interagency partners in this landmark release of UAP records. For the first time in history, the American people have unfettered access to declassified government files on Unidentified Anomalous Phenomenon - a level of transparency that no prior administration has delivered. The FBI remains committed to supporting this rolling declassification effort with the same rigor and integrity we bring to every national security matter. As these files continue to be reviewed and released, the American people can be confident that their security remains our highest priority."

NASA Administrator Jared Isaacman: "I applaud President Trump's whole-of-government effort to bring greater transparency to the American people on unidentified anomalous phenomena. At NASA, our job is to bring the brightest minds and most advanced scientific instruments to bear, follow the data, and share what we learn. We will remain candid about what we know to be true, what we have yet to understand, and all that remains to be discovered. Exploration and the pursuit of knowledge are core to NASA's mission as we endeavor to unlock the secrets of the universe." 

WAR.GOV/UFO is a dedicated Department of War webpage to stay up to date with the latest UAP file releases.

ufo uap trump pursue president
Subscribe to War.gov Products

Choose which War.gov products you want delivered to your inbox.

Subscribe
DEPARTMENT OF WAR
Home
News
Spotlights
About
HELPFUL LINKS
Live Events
Today in DOW
Contracts
For the Media
Contact
RESOURCES
Resources
Careers
Help Center
DOW / Military Websites
Agency Financial Report
POPULAR
2026 National Defense Strategy
America's Military – Celebrating Independence!
Value of Service
Drone Dominance

The Department of War provides the military forces needed to deter war and ensure our nation's security.

Enter Your Search Terms
Privacy & SecurityLinks DisclaimerSection 508Social Media PolicyWeb PolicyPlain Writing ActDOW IGReporting Civilian CasualtiesNo FEAR ActImagery UseFOIAOpen GOVStrategic Management PlanUSA.govSmall Business ActSite Map
Subscribe
Hosted by Department of War Information Activity - WEB.mil